As a pediatric neurosurgeon, I took the Hippocratic Oath to First, Do No Harm.   My medical career was devoted to protecting and enhancing the lives of children and their families.  Protecting innocent life is a duty consistent with that solemn oath.  As a surgeon, I have operated on infants pre-birth.  I can assure you that they are very much alive.  My commitment to protect innocent life goes back decades.  For years I have helped raise money for a wide spectrum of faith-based entities that assist expectant mothers with the birth of their child by providing a variety of valuable, pro-life services.  We must ratify a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution in order to restore fiscal responsibility to the federal governments budget.  The career politicians in Washington have demonstrated beyond even a shadow of a doubt that they wont get serious about balancing the budget and paying down the debt until we MANDATE that it be done by constitutional amendment.  Each generations greatest responsibility is to pass on a greater opportunity to the next generation.  Our generation is failing in this regard.  A Balanced Budget Amendment to our Constitution will lead to a better future for our grandchildren. For primary and secondary education, the bedrock concept that has always guided us has been local control.  Communities fund and manage public schools for the benefit of families and children in their neighborhoods.  More than most, Im acutely aware of education being the ladder that can lead one out of poverty and into realizing the American Dream.  In recent years, there has been a troubling trend of the U.S.  Department of Education increasingly trying to dictate how children are educated in our primary and secondary schools.  This must stop and Common Core must be overturned.  Our education system must be run by involved parents and engaged teachers and principals.  Any attempt by faceless federal bureaucrats to take over our local schools must be defeated. Radical terrorists captured in countries all over the world must be detained safely while awaiting trial by military commission.  Gitmo is, by far, the single best facility for this dangerous job.  Keeping Gitmo open is a critical element in our never-ending efforts to keep the American people safe from another cataclysmic terrorist attack.  We didnt need the monstrosity of the $1. 2 trillion Affordable Care Act.  Even after it is fully implemented for 10 years, 23 million people still wont have any health insurance.  We need to re-establish a strong and direct relationship between patients and their physicians.  For instance, I strongly support Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) which empower families to make their own decisions about their medical treatment.  HSAs will also drive down health care costs while protecting patient choice and freedom.  More freedom and less government in our health care system will mean lower costs, more access, and continued innovation.  The United States of America was founded on Judeo-Christian principles.  We can and should be proud of that fact.  It served us well for almost 200 years.  However, we need to reverse the recent trend of secular progressives using activist, federal judges to drive faith out of our society.  Anyone who wishes to practice their faith, for example by praying privately, can and should be able to do so.  Equally, the rights of someone to abstain from private prayer should also be jealously protected.  The First Amendment enshrines our freedom to practice whatever faith we choose from any government intrusion.  Our Founding Fathers never meant for the First Amendment to be used to drive prayer out of the public square.  The United States must be resolute in the face of these Russian transgressions.  We must lead our allies, both NATO and non-NATO alike, from a position of strength.  History has painfully taught us that letting dictators run amok and hoping for the best fails.  President Putin must come to learn that there will be grave and serious consequences when Russia engages in naked aggression against other sovereign nations and free peoples.  All options should remain on the table when dealing with international bullies such as President Putin. It was no accident that our Founding Fathers enshrined the right to own firearms as the 2nd element of the Bill of Rights, immediately after establishing our free speech rights.  I cannot and will not support any efforts to weaken The 2nd Amendment.  The 2nd Amendment is a central pillar of our Constitution.  Our Founding Fathers added it explicitly in order to protect freedom in the United States of America.  It provides our citizens the right to protect themselves from threats foreign or domestic.  Israel is our only democratic ally in the Middle East.  She is surrounded by nations that threaten her very existence.  We can never let her enemies believe that our deep commitment to Israels peace and security will waver.  We must always stand with Israel and her people. It is too long, too complex, too burdensome, and too riddled with tax shelters and loopholes that benefit only a few at the direct expense of the many.  We need wholesale tax reform.  And, we wont get that from career politicians in Washington.  Theyre too deeply vested in the current system to deliver the kind of bold, fresh, new reforms that the American people are demanding.  We need a fairer, simpler, and more equitable tax system.  Our tax form should be able to be completed in less than 15 minutes.  This will enable us to end the IRS as we know it.  This is a very difficult time for the United States of America.  We face daunting challenges at home and unprecedented challenges abroad.  Its time for new leadership.  Its time for a fresh start.  Here are my thoughts and views on some of the key issues facing the American people as I begin my presidential campaign.  I hope youll join me.  Together we can make America great again.  I am unabashedly and entirely pro-life.   Human life begins at conception and innocent life must be protected.  In January 2009, our public debt was $11. 9 trillion.  Now, its more than $18 trillion.  Interest payments on the debt now total about $250 billion, the 3rd single biggest item in the federal budget.  Education is the fundamental principle of what makes America a success.   It is the foundation of what truly makes our country the Land of Opportunity.  We must keep our detention facility at Gitmo open.  ObamaCare is a looming disaster.  Our Founding Fathers were courageous men of principle and faith.   We know this because the Declaration of Independence, our bedrock document, explicitly acknowledges the existence of our Creator.  Vladimir Putins Russia has become dangerously belligerent.   It is actively destabilizing Ukraine, endangering Europe in the process and continuing to fuel destabilization in the Middle East.   This newfound aggressiveness is a rising threat to the peace and security of the American people.  The right of law-abiding citizens to own firearms is fundamental to our liberty.  The United States of America has had a special relationship with Israel ever since we were the very first nation to recognize her creation.  The depth of our unique bond with Israel has only strengthened over the years.  The current tax code now exceeds 74,000 pages in length.  That is an abomination.  This is a very difficult time for the United States of America.  We face daunting challenges at home and unprecedented challenges abroad.  Its time for new leadership.  Its time for a fresh start.  Here are my thoughts and views on some of the key issues facing the American people as I begin my presidential campaign.  I hope youll join me.  Together we can make America great again.  I am unabashedly and entirely pro-life.   Human life begins at conception and innocent life must be protected.  In January 2009, our public debt was $11. 9 trillion.  Now, its more than $18 trillion.  Interest payments on the debt now total about $250 billion, the 3rd single biggest item in the federal budget.  Education is the fundamental principle of what makes America a success.   It is the foundation of what truly makes our country the Land of Opportunity.  We must keep our detention facility at Gitmo open.  ObamaCare is a looming disaster.  Our Founding Fathers were courageous men of principle and faith.   We know this because the Declaration of Independence, our bedrock document, explicitly acknowledges the existence of our Creator.  Vladimir Putins Russia has become dangerously belligerent.   It is actively destabilizing Ukraine, endangering Europe in the process and continuing to fuel destabilization in the Middle East.   This newfound aggressiveness is a rising threat to the peace and security of the American people.  The right of law-abiding citizens to own firearms is fundamental to our liberty.  The United States of America has had a special relationship with Israel ever since we were the very first nation to recognize her creation.  The depth of our unique bond with Israel has only strengthened over the years.  The current tax code now exceeds 74,000 pages in length.  That is an abomination. This is a very difficult time for the United States of America.  We face daunting challenges at home and unprecedented challenges abroad.  Its time for new leadership.  Its time for a fresh start.  Here are my thoughts and views on some of the key issues facing the American people as I begin my presidential campaign.  I hope youll join me.  Together we can make America great again.  I am unabashedly and entirely pro-life.   Human life begins at conception and innocent life must be protected.  In January 2009, our public debt was $11. 9 trillion.  Now, its more than $18 trillion.  Interest payments on the debt now total about $250 billion, the 3rd single biggest item in the federal budget.  Education is the fundamental principle of what makes America a success.   It is the foundation of what truly makes our country the Land of Opportunity.  We must keep our detention facility at Gitmo open.  ObamaCare is a looming disaster.  Our Founding Fathers were courageous men of principle and faith.   We know this because the Declaration of Independence, our bedrock document, explicitly acknowledges the existence of our Creator.  Vladimir Putins Russia has become dangerously belligerent.   It is actively destabilizing Ukraine, endangering Europe in the process and continuing to fuel destabilization in the Middle East.   This newfound aggressiveness is a rising threat to the peace and security of the American people.  The right of law-abiding citizens to own firearms is fundamental to our liberty.  The United States of America has had a special relationship with Israel ever since we were the very first nation to recognize her creation.  The depth of our unique bond with Israel has only strengthened over the years.  The current tax code now exceeds 74,000 pages in length.  That is an abomination. 
