Through improved treatment, prevention, and training, we can end this quiet epidemic once and for all. 

Read Hillary’s op-ed on substance use disorders and addiction.





Hillary’s plan to combat America’s deadly epidemic of drug and alcohol addiction includes:

Prevention. Hillary will empower communities to implement preventive programming for adolescents about drug use and addiction. She knows that education and early intervention is crucial to fighting this epidemic, so Hillary’s plan helps state and local leaders put into place effective, evidence-based programs tailored to their communities.

Treatment and recovery. Substance use disorders are chronic diseases, and Hillary understands that recovery is only possible through effective and ongoing care—not neglect or stigmatization. Her plan focuses on ensuring that everyone who needs it has access to continuing support and treatment.

First responders. Her plan ensures that all first responders have access to naloxone, which can prevent opioid overdoses from becoming fatal.

Prescribers. Hillary’s initiative will require licensed prescribers to meet requirements for a minimum amount of training, and consult a prescription drug monitoring program before writing a prescription for controlled medications.

Criminal justice reform. Her plan will prioritize rehabilitation and treatment over prison for low-level and nonviolent drug offenses and work to end the era of mass incarceration. Additionally it focuses on fostering more collaboration and coordination between public health and criminal justice to ensure continuity of care for those who suffer from substance use disorders.


Hillary’s plan also takes or calls for immediate federal actions, including:

Increasing the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant

Ensuring federal insurance parity laws are enforced

Re-evaluating Medicare and Medicaid payment practices

Removing obstacles to reimbursement and helping integrate care for addiction into standard practice

Directing the attorney general to issue guidance on prioritizing treatment over imprisonment for nonviolent, low-level drug offenders

Our democracy should work for everyone, not just the wealthy and well-connected.


Hillary will: 

It’s not enough to condemn campus sexual assault. We need to end it.


Hillary will build on the progress that has been made—and take on the problems we have yet to solve. Hillary’s plan to end campus sexual assault is guided by three core principles: 

 Providing comprehensive support to survivors. Hillary will ensure that every campus offers survivors the support they need—no matter their gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, or race. Those services—from counseling to critical health care—should be confidential, comprehensive, and coordinated.  

 Ensuring a fair process for all. Too often, the process of addressing a sexual assault on campus is confusing and convoluted. And many who choose to report in the criminal justice system fear that their voices will be dismissed instead of heard. Hillary believes we need a fair process for all involved, whether that’s in campus disciplinary proceedings or in the criminal justice system. This includes providing all parties involved with notice and transparency in campus disciplinary proceedings, and ensuring that complaints filed in the criminal justice system are treated seriously.

 Increasing prevention efforts. We need to recognize that it’s not enough to address this problem by responding only once sexual assault occurs. Hillary believes we need to redouble our prevention efforts and start them earlier. She will increase sexual violence prevention education programs that cover issues like consent and bystander intervention—and she’ll make sure we have programs not only in college, but also in secondary school.Hillary has led efforts to address violence against women her entire career:
 As first lady, Hillary supported the creation of the Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women. She also cast a global spotlight on the issue in her historic 1995 Beijing speech, where she denounced violence against women as a clear violation of human rights.

 As secretary of state, Hillary rallied the international community to take collective action to end violence against women. She drew attention to the use of rape as a weapon of war and spearheaded a U.N. Resolution that established guidelines for an international response to sexual assault in war torn areas. 

Stand with Hillary to address campus sexual assault:




Making America the clean energy superpower of the 21st century


In the coming months, Hillary will lay out a comprehensive energy and climate agenda to help America transition to a clean energy economy and meet the global climate crisis.


Stand with Hillary if you agree: Climate change is real. We need to address it, not deny it.






As the first pillar of her comprehensive energy and climate agenda, Hillary will set two bold national goals.


Through these goals, we will increase the amount of installed solar capacity by 700% by 2020, expand renewable energy to at least a third of all electricity generation, prevent thousands of premature deaths and tens of thousands of asthma attacks each year, and put our country on a path to achieve deep emission reductions by 2050.
 
The clean energy challenge
 
These goals are a critical next step toward making America a clean energy superpower and combating climate change. That is why Hillary will make it a top priority to fight efforts to roll back crucial tools in our national strategy to reduce carbon pollution, increase deployment of renewable energy, and build a clean energy future.

But federal standards should set the floor, not the ceiling. Hillary will also launch a Clean Energy Challenge that will form new partnerships with states, cities, and rural communities that are ready to lead.


Read more about Hillary Clinton’s strategy to take on climate change and transition to a clean energy economy.




The New College Compact: Costs won’t be a barrier, debt won’t hold you back.
for it, without saddling them with decades of debt.”


How will Hillary’s plan help you? Take the quiz to find out.






Here’s what every student and family should expect under Hillary’s plan:


Costs won't be a barrier.

Students should never have to borrow to pay for tuition, books, and fees to attend a four-year public college in their state under the New College Compact. Pell Grants are not included in the calculation of no-debt-tuition, so Pell recipients will be able to use their grants fully for living expenses. Students at community college will receive free tuition. 

Students will do their part by contributing their earnings from working 10 hours a week.

Families will do their part by making an affordable and realistic family contribution.

The federal government will make a major investment in the New College Compact by providing grants to states that commit to these goals, and by cutting interest rates on loans.

States will have to step up and meet their obligation to invest in higher education by maintaining current levels of higher education funding and reinvesting over time.

Colleges and universities will be accountable for improving outcomes and controlling costs to ensure that tuition is affordable and that students who invest in college leave with a degree.

We will encourage innovators who design imaginative new ways of providing a valuable college education to students—while cracking down on abusive practices that burden students with debt without value.





Debt won’t hold you back.

Under Hillary’s plan, if you have student debt, you will be able to refinance your loans at current rates. An estimated 25 million borrowers will receive debt relief, and the typical borrower could save $2,000 over the life of his or her loans.

For future undergraduates, the plan will significantly cut interest rates so they reflect the government’s low cost of debt. This could save students hundreds or thousands of dollars over the life of their loans.

Everyone will be able to enroll in a simplified, income-based repayment program so that borrowers never have to pay more than 10 percent of what they make.





Fully paid for: This plan will cost around $350 billion over 10 years—and will be fully paid for by limiting certain tax expenditures for high-income taxpayers.


Our criminal justice system is out of balance.


In order to reform our criminal justice system, we need to recognize some hard truths about race in America. From Ferguson to Staten Island to Baltimore, Hillary has said the patterns are unmistakable and undeniable: The tragic deaths of Michael Brown, Walter Scott, Tamir Rice, Eric Garner, and Freddie Gray are a reminder of the need to address race in America, reform our criminal justice system, and move the nation forward. 


Hillary will work to fix these disparities by: 

Ending the era of mass incarceration. As president, Hillary will work to reform our criminal justice system by changing the way we approach punishment and prison. She will reform mandatory minimum sentences for low-level nonviolent offenses, increase support for mental health and drug treatment, and pursue alternative punishments for low-level offenders, especially young people.

Encouraging the use of smart strategies—such as police body cameras—to fight crime and rebuild trust in our communities. Hillary has called for every police department in the nation to have body cameras to improve transparency and accountability on both sides of the lens. She also believes that the best practices of successful police departments that are protecting the public without resorting to unnecessary force should be applied by police forces nationwide.

Urging Americans to come to terms with hard truths about race and justice. Black men across this country are being killed at a rate that far outpaces any other group. We must address the role race continues to play in America in order to reform our criminal justice system and move the nation forward.

Strengthening America’s families. We cannot ensure smart policing or reform the criminal justice system unless we also address the underlying issues facing African Americans. This is why Hillary plans to provide better economic opportunities for the middle class, make college affordable for all, and ensure that families are reaching their potential.

We must continue to expand opportunities for all Americans.


Hillary has spent her life fighting for the rights of Americans with disabilities.

Hillary’s first job out of law school was with the Children’s Defense Fund, and one of her first tasks was going door to door to figure out why so many children were missing school. She discovered that many parents were not sending their children to school because schools did not accommodate disabilities.

The evidence she helped gather was presented to Congress, and built the case for passage of the law that ensures all children with disabilities have access to school.

As secretary of state, Hillary worked to build strong support for the United States to join the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.  But despite a broad, bipartisan coalition, the Republican-controlled Senate blocked its passage.
Now, 25 years after the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act, Hillary recognizes that there is still much work to do, including improving access to meaningful and gainful employment for people with disabilities. Too many Americans with disabilities continue to be left out of the workforce, and for those who are employed, too many are in under-stimulating jobs that don't fully allow them to use their talents.

Every child deserves the chance to live up to his or her God-given potential. 

Today, Hillary is fighting to give every child access to a quality education, starting with our youngest learners: 

 Investing in early childhood programs. Hillary has called for doubling our investment in Early Head Start and Early Head Start–Child Care programs, which bring evidence-based curriculum into the child care setting to provide comprehensive, full-day, high-quality services to low-income families.

 Expanding preschool access. Hillary has called for us to build on the bipartisan work taking place in states and communities across America to expand access to preschool by initiating new federal support for their efforts. Her proposal would ensure that every four-year-old in America has access to high-quality preschool in the next 10 years, by providing new federal funding for states that expand access to quality preschool for four-year-olds. 

It is past time we act on gun violence.


Hillary has a record of advocating for commonsense approaches to reduce gun violence:

As first lady, she co-convened a White House Summit on School Violence after the Columbine tragedy. She also strongly defended the Brady Bill, which instituted federal background checks on gun sales.

As senator, she co-sponsored and voted for legislation to close the gun show loophole by requiring criminal background checks on all transactions taking place at events that sell firearms.

She also co-sponsored and voted for legislation to extend and reinstate the assault weapons ban.

Affordable health care is a basic human right.

Hillary led the fight to expand access to quality, affordable health care for decades—and she’s not going to stop now. Throughout her career, Hillary led the fight to expand health care access for every American:

In 1979, Hillary chaired the Arkansas Rural Health Advisory Committee, which focused on expanding health care access to isolated rural areas of the state.

As first lady, she refused to give up when Congress defeated health care reform. Instead, she worked with Republicans and Democrats to help create the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which now provides health coverage to more than 8 million children. Senator Ted Kennedy said that if not for Hillary, the Children’s Health Insurance Program wouldn’t be in existence today.
As senator, she introduced legislation to reduce the cost of health insurance expenses.

Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, Hillary pushed the Bush administration for $20 billion for recovery and to address health care needs of first responders who suffered lasting health effects from their time at Ground Zero.

Going forward, Hillary will build on these efforts and fight to ensure that the savings from these reforms benefits families—not just insurance companies, drug companies, and large corporations. 


Defend the Affordable Care Act. Hillary will continue to defend the Affordable Care Act (ACA) against Republican efforts to repeal it. She'll build on it to expand affordable coverage, slow the growth of overall health care costs (including prescription drugs), and make it possible for providers to deliver the very best care to patients.

Lower out-of-pocket costs like copays and deductibles. The average deductible for employer-sponsored health plans rose from $1,240 in 2002 to about $2,500 in 2013. American families are being squeezed by rising out-of-pocket health care costs. Hillary believes that workers should share in slower growth of national health care spending through lower costs.

Reduce the cost of prescription drugs. Prescription drug spending accelerated from 2.5 percent in 2013 to 12.6 percent in 2014. It’s no wonder that almost three-quarters of Americans believe prescription drug costs are unreasonable. Hillary believes we need to demand lower drug costs for hardworking families and seniors.

Transform our health care system to reward value and quality. Hillary is committed to building on delivery system reforms in the Affordable Care Act that improve value and quality care for Americans.


Hillary is advocating for:

A fair and just immigration system. Every family should feel like they belong in this country. Instead of breaking up law-abiding immigrant families who have enriched America for years, Hillary will offer them a path to citizenship.

Comprehensive immigration reform. The American people support comprehensive immigration reform—not just because it is the right thing to do, but because it strengthens families, our economy, and our country. Congress must pass comprehensive immigration reform that provides a path to citizenship, treats every person with dignity, upholds the rule of law, protects our borders and national security, and brings millions of hardworking people into the formal economy.

Defending executive actions. Hillary will defend President Obama’s executive actions on immigration from partisan attacks that would put DREAMers at risk of deportation. And if Congress continues to refuse to act, she will do everything possible under the law to go further. She will put in place a simple, straightforward, accessible way for parents of DREAMers and others with a history of service and contribution to their communities to make their case and be eligible for the same deferred action as their children.

Conducting humane, common-sense enforcement. Immigration enforcement must be more humane, more targeted, and more effective. We will focus our limited resources on those individuals who pose a violent threat to public safety.

A world-class education for every child in every community.

Hillary believes that every child, no matter his or her race, income, or ZIP code, should be guaranteed a high-quality education. That's why she has been working to improve and support our public schools for decades. As first lady of Arkansas, she chaired the Arkansas Educational Standards Commission, fighting to raise academic standards, increase teacher salaries and lower class sizes. As first lady of the United States, she chaired the first-ever convening on Hispanic Children and Youth focused on improving access to educational opportunities. And, as a United States Senator, she served on the Senate Health, Education and Labor Committee as a key member shaping the No Child Left Behind Act with the hopes that it would bring needed resources and real accountability to improve educational opportunities for our most disadvantaged students. But the promise of No Child Left Behind was not fulfilled. Hillary knows that we have real work to do to fulfill the promise that every child in America should receive a high-quality education. That is why she will fight for policies that: 

Make high-quality education a priority for every child in America.  Currently, Congress is debating the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act. Hillary believes that it is critical that Congress retain its commitment to high academic standards for all children, which will include measuring how children are doing each year. Hillary believes that testing provides communities with full information about how our low-income students, students of color, and students with disabilities are doing in comparison to other groups so that we can continue to improve our educational system for all students. But she also understands the frustration many parents and educators feel about tests. Teachers and parents alike are concerned about the amount of time being spent on test preparation, and worry that children are missing out on the most valuable experience in the classroom: a teacher who sparks a student's curiosity and love for learning.​ That is why she believes we need to find the right balance, and that starts with bringing parents and educators back into this conversation about how we ensure a robust and engaging curriculum that engages students in the love of learning rather than narrowing our schools to focus primarily on test preparation.


Support educators. Hillary knows that the evidence on what most improves student learning all points to good teachers. Yet, we do not do enough to ensure that teachers receive the training, mentorship and support they need to succeed and thrive in the classroom. Hillary will invest in supporting our teachers, recruiting the best and brightest into the profession, and providing more teachers training with real-world hands-on learning experiences.  

Improve student outcomes. Hillary believes have to do more to meet the needs of students by providing opportunities geared toward their individual skills and educational goals. She will work to ensure students with disabilities, in particular, have the resources and support they need throughout their school years.

Hillary has been working to improve our schools for decades. When she was first lady of Arkansas, Hillary chaired the Arkansas Educational Standards Commission where she worked to raise standards for Arkansas schools, increase teacher salaries, and lower class size. Hillary continued this effort as first lady of the United States and as a senator, working to provide dedicated resources and support to teachers and to recruit, support, and retain more outstanding teachers. 


Labor unions helped build America’s middle class, and organized labor remains critical to fulfilling America’s basic bargain: If you work hard and do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead. Hillary believes we need to protect and strengthen America’s workforce by: 

Raising incomes for hardworking Americans. Raising incomes so that hardworking Americans can afford to live a middle-class life is the defining economic challenge of our time. Hillary believes that our success as a nation should be measured by whether American families get ahead. She has proposed an economic plan to get it done.

Restoring union collective bargaining rights. Hillary was an original co-sponsor of the Employee Free Choice Act. Hillary will fight to strengthen the labor movement and to protect worker bargaining power. She will continue to stand up against attacks on collective bargaining and work to strengthen workers’ voices.

Raising the minimum wage and strengthening overtime rules. Hillary believes we are long overdue in raising the minimum wage. She has supported raising the federal minimum wage to $12, and believes that we should go further than the federal minimum through state and local efforts, and workers organizing and bargaining for higher wages, such as the Fight for 15 and recent efforts in Los Angeles and New York to raise their minimum wage to $15. She also supports the Obama Administration’s expansion of overtime rules to millions more workers.

Investments that create good jobs and build up workers’ skills. Hillary supports expanding investments in our infrastructure to create good jobs and union jobs. And she has proposed rewarding high-quality training and apprenticeships—which unions have established for decades—and are proven to raise wages for workers.

Protecting workers from exploitation. Hillary believes we need to protect workers against employer misclassification, wage theft, and other forms of exploitation.

Supporting working families. Equal pay, paid family leave, earned sick days, fair schedules, and quality affordable child care aren’t luxuries—they’re necessities for families. Hillary will fight for workplace policies that will help more Americans enter the workforce and succeed there.

Protecting retirement security. After working hard for years, Americans deserve a secure and comfortable retirement. Hillary will fight to protect retirement security, enhance—not privatize—Social Security, and push back against any effort to undermine retirement benefits.

Hillary has spent her life fighting for equality for all, and she has been a vocal advocate for LGBT rights throughout her career.

In the U.S. Senate, Hillary championed hate crime legislation, fought for federal non-discrimination legislation to protect LGBT Americans in the workplace, and advocated for an end to restrictions that blocked LGBT Americans from adopting children.

As secretary of state, Hillary advanced LGBT rights abroad and enforced stronger anti-discrimination regulations within the State Department, declaring on the global stage that “gay rights are human rights, and human rights are gay rights.” She led the effort to pass the first-ever U.N. Resolution on LGBT Human Rights, launched the Global Equality Fund, ended State Department regulations that denied same-sex couples and their families equal rights, helped implement LGBT-friendly workplace policies, and updated the State Department’s policy so that transgender individuals’ passports reflect their true gender.

With policies that keep us strong and safe, America can lead the world in the 21st century.


As secretary of state, Hillary Clinton worked to make the world safer and to restore America's leadership in the world.





Establishing a strong foundation. Our economy provides the foundation for our leadership, our diplomatic influence, and our military might. We succeed when we invest in our people, our infrastructure, and our technological edge. As secretary of state, Hillary went to bat for American companies and workers around the world, helping open markets and boost exports that created jobs back home.

Keeping our homeland secure. As secretary of state, Hillary expanded global anti-terrorism cooperation and helped step up our efforts to go after terrorist recruitment, propaganda, and safe havens.  As president, she’ll keep America safe and strong, while upholding our core values and principles.

Making sure that our military is on the cutting edge. As a senator, Hillary was a champion for our men and women in uniform as a member of the Armed Services Committee. As president, she'll ensure the United States maintains the best-trained, best-equipped, and strongest military the world has ever known. America must also respond to the new challenges our veterans and military families face, providing them with the support they have earned and deserve. 

Following a vision for America that is centered on our core ideals. Hillary will continue her long-standing emphasis on gender equality and human rights, including the rights of LGBT individuals around the globe, and standing up for an open Internet to ensure that all people have equal access to information and ideas.


Never allowing Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon. America and our allies, especially Israel, will be safer if we vigorously enforce the nuclear agreement with Iran and implement a broader strategy to confront Iran’s bad behavior in the region.

Defeating ISIS. ISIS and the foreign terrorist fighters
it recruits pose a serious threat to America and our allies. We will confront
and defeat them in a way that builds greater stability across the region
without miring our troops in another misguided ground war. Hillary will empower
our partners to defeat terrorism and the ideologies that drive it, including
through our ongoing partnership to build Iraqi military and governing capacity, our commitment to
Afghanistan’s democracy and security, and by supporting efforts to restore stability to Libya and Yemen.

Holding China accountable. As secretary of state, Hillary reasserted America’s role as a Pacific power and
called out China’s aggressive actions in the region.  As president, she’ll work with friends and allies to promote strong rules of the
road and institutions in Asia, and encourage China to be
a responsible stakeholder —including on cyberspace, human rights, trade, territorial disputes, and
climate change—and hold it accountable if it does not.

Standing up to Putin. Hillary has gone toe-to-toe with Putin before, and she'll do it again. She'll stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our European allies and help them decrease dependence on Russian oil. With our partners, Hillary will confine, contain, and deter Russian aggressions in Europe and beyond, and increase the costs to Putin for his actions.


Strengthen alliances. From the Middle East and Asia to Europe and our own hemisphere, Hillary will strengthen the essential partnerships that are a unique source of America’s strength. That’s particularly true of Israel, which is why Hillary will continue to support Israel's ability to defend itself, including with Iron Dome and other defense systems. If anyone challenges Israel’s security, they challenge America’s security. 

Create partnerships for tomorrow. Hillary believes in free peoples and free markets. As president, she'll invest in partnerships in Latin America, Africa, and Asia with people and nations who share our values and vision for the future.

Engage civil society. America has the opportunity to resolve familiar conflicts and nurture new democracies, to empower moderates and marginalize extremists, and to open markets and champion human rights. From engaging students and civil leaders to broadening our development partnerships to involve our businesses, entrepreneurs, and philanthropists, Hillary knows that America’s greatest assets are our diverse citizens and the vision of fairness and openness we offer the world.


Climate change is not just a moral and economic issue, it is a defining national security challenge of our time. Safeguarding our country from rising sea levels and extreme weather requires domestic action and intensive global engagement. America must lead this effort, not back away from a threat to our security or an opportunity for our economy.

Cyber attacks have profound consequences for our economy and our national security. Hillary will leverage the work of the public and private sectors—overcoming the mistrust that impedes cooperation today—to strengthen security and build resiliency for economy and infrastructure. Our country will outpace this rapidly changing threat, maintain strong protections against unwarranted government or corporate surveillance, and ensure American companies are the most competitive in the world.

Highly contagious diseases are a constant threat. Warmer and drier conditions caused by global climate change, along with our increasingly interconnected world, enable germs to spread more quickly across the globe. America must remain vigilant and do more to prevent and contain outbreaks.

A plan to raise American incomes

Hillary will invest in infrastructure, clean energy, and scientific and medical research to create jobs and strengthen our economy. And she’ll provide tax relief to working families and small businesses. That’s how we’ll move toward a full employment economy that creates jobs, pushes businesses to compete over workers, and raises incomes.


  
  
 Provide tax relief for families. Hillary will cut taxes for hard-working families to increase their take-home pay as they face rising costs from child care, health care, and sending their kids to college. She is calling for extending a tax cut of up to $2,500 per student to help deal with college costs as part of her New College Compact and for cutting taxes for businesses that share profits with their employees.
  
  
  Unleash small business growth. Hillary’s father owned a small business—and she understands that small businesses are the backbone of jobs and growth in America. She’s put forward a small-business agenda to expand access to capital, provide tax relief, cut red tape, and help small businesses bring their goods to new markets.

  Create a New College Compact. Hillary’s New College Compact will invest $350 billion so that students do not have to borrow to pay tuition at a public college in their state. Her plan will also significantly cut interest rates on student loans and enable an estimated 25 million Americans with student debt to refinance at today’s lower rates, saving the typical borrower $2,000 over the life of their loans. 

Boost public investment in infrastructure and scientific research. One of the best ways to drive jobs and improve our nation’s competitiveness is to invest in infrastructure and scientific research. Hillary has called for a national infrastructure bank that would leverage public and private funds to invest in projects across the country. She will call for reform that closes corporate tax loopholes and drives investment here, in the U.S. And she would increase funding for scientific research at agencies like the NIH and NSF.

Lift up participation in the workforce—especially for women. For too long, issues like equal pay, paid leave, and affordable child care have been put off to the side as "women's issues." Hillary believes they are crucial to our competitiveness and growth—and to lifting incomes for working families.
Ensure more workers share in near-record corporate profits. Corporate profits are near record highs—but workers have not shared through rising wages. Profit sharing is linked to higher pay, benefits, and productivity. That’s why Hillary’s plan creates a 15 percent tax credit for companies that share profits with workers on top of wages and pay increases. 

Raise the minimum wage. Hillary stands with workers marching in the streets for a $15 minimum wage in their industry and with cities and states like Los Angeles and Seattle that have raised their minimum wage to $15. She supports legislation to raise the national minimum wage and she believes we should go higher through state, local, and worker efforts.

Reform our tax code so the wealthiest pay their fair share. Hillary supports ending the “carried interest” loophole, enacting the “Buffett Rule” that ensures no millionaire pays a lower effective tax rate than their secretary, and closing tax loopholes and expenditures that benefit the wealthiest taxpayers to pay for her plan to make college affordable and refinance student debt. 

Expand early learning. Hillary’s proposal  would work to ensure that every 4-year-old in America has access to high-quality preschool in the next 10 years. 

It's time to push back against the forces of "quarterly capitalism" and boom and bust cycles on Wall Street.



  Put an end to “quarterly capitalism.” We need an economy where companies plan for the long run and invest in their workers through increased wages and better training—leading to higher productivity, better service, and larger profits. Hillary will revamp the capital gains tax to reward farsighted investments that create jobs. She’ll address the rising influence of the kinds of so-called “activist” shareholders that focus on short-term profits at the expense of long-term growth, and she’ll reform executive compensation to better align the interests of executives with long-term value. 

  Impose accountability on Wall Street. Nowhere will the shift from short-term to long-term thinking be more important than on Wall Street. Hillary will defend the Wall Street reforms put in place after the financial crisis—and she’ll go further. She’ll tackle dangerous risks in the financial sector, and she’ll appoint and empower tough, independent regulators and prosecute individuals and firms when they commit fraud or other criminal wrong-doing. 
Stand with Hillary if you agree: It’s time to help families get ahead and stay ahead.






Hillary has a plan to strengthen rural America for the next generation, focusing on four key areas:


Spur investment to power the rural economy.

Many small and medium-sized businesses in rural communities are being held back by inadequate infrastructure, poor access to credit and capital, and insufficient incentives to invest.

Hillary will expand access to equity capital for businesses, expand the New Markets Tax Credit, and create a national infrastructure bank to improve rural transportation, water, and broadband infrastructure.

Raise agricultural production and profitability for family farms.

Farmers and ranchers supply food for America’s dinner tables, invest in farm machinery and supplies, and provide domestic energy resources that fuel small businesses. The agriculture economy also drives America’s larger economic success—accounting for about $800 billion in economic activity each year.

Hillary will increase funding to support the next generation of farmers and ranchers, invest in expanding local food markets and regional food systems, and provide a focused safety net to assist family operations that truly need support during challenging times.


Promote clean energy leadership and collaborative stewardship.

Hillary believes we must build on rural America’s clean energy leadership by developing clean fuels that will grow our economy, lower our energy bills, combat climate change, and make America the clean energy superpower of the 21st century.


Hillary will fully fund a program that provides assistance to producers who conserve and improve natural resources on their farms, strengthens the Renewable Fuel Standard, and doubles loan guarantees that support the bio-based economy’s dynamic growth.

Expand opportunity in rural communities across America.

Hillary believes that you should be able to live, work, and raise a family anywhere you choose. But increasingly, young Americans in rural areas have been forced to look outside of their communities to find quality health care, a good education, and stable jobs.

To ensure that every American has a solid foundation for success—wherever they choose to live—Hillary will double funding for Early Head Start and make pre-k universal for four-year-olds, enact free community college, and support telemedicine and Medicaid expansion.

Hillary Clinton will be the small business president.



Here’s how Hillary will make it easier to start and grow a small business in America:

Cutting red tape. Hillary will launch a nationwide effort to cut red tape for small businesses at every level of government. It shouldn’t take longer to start a small business in the United States than it does in Canada, France, or South Korea.

Providing tax relief. America’s smallest businesses—those with 1–5 employees—spend 150 hours and $1,100 per employee to comply with federal taxes. That’s more than 20 times higher than the average for larger firms. Hillary will simplify tax filing and provide targeted tax relief for small businesses—not big corporations that can afford lawyers and lobbyists.


Tapping new markets. Every small business across America should be able to enter new markets—whether they’re across town or across the world. Some American businesses—like Etsy and eBay—are already doing this through innovative new platforms that let them sell anywhere in America and the world. Hillary will encourage this kind of innovation.

Improving access to capital. Hillary will leverage the best ideas from the private sector and government to give small-business owners access to financing to build, grow, and hire. And she will do that in part by easing burdens on community banks that provide credit to small-business owners and families looking to invest in their futures—without compromising protections for consumers or introducing new risks into the financial system. The big banks don’t need relief from Washington—small banks and small businesses do.





Through improved treatment, prevention, and training, we can end this quiet epidemic once and for all. 

Read Hillary’s op-ed on substance use disorders and addiction.





Hillary’s plan to combat America’s deadly epidemic of drug and alcohol addiction includes:

Prevention. Hillary will empower communities to implement preventive programming for adolescents about drug use and addiction. She knows that education and early intervention is crucial to fighting this epidemic, so Hillary’s plan helps state and local leaders put into place effective, evidence-based programs tailored to their communities.

Treatment and recovery. Substance use disorders are chronic diseases, and Hillary understands that recovery is only possible through effective and ongoing care—not neglect or stigmatization. Her plan focuses on ensuring that everyone who needs it has access to continuing support and treatment.

First responders. Her plan ensures that all first responders have access to naloxone, which can prevent opioid overdoses from becoming fatal.

Prescribers. Hillary’s initiative will require licensed prescribers to meet requirements for a minimum amount of training, and consult a prescription drug monitoring program before writing a prescription for controlled medications.

Criminal justice reform. Her plan will prioritize rehabilitation and treatment over prison for low-level and nonviolent drug offenses and work to end the era of mass incarceration. Additionally it focuses on fostering more collaboration and coordination between public health and criminal justice to ensure continuity of care for those who suffer from substance use disorders.


Hillary’s plan also takes or calls for immediate federal actions, including:

Increasing the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant

Ensuring federal insurance parity laws are enforced

Re-evaluating Medicare and Medicaid payment practices

Removing obstacles to reimbursement and helping integrate care for addiction into standard practice

Directing the attorney general to issue guidance on prioritizing treatment over imprisonment for nonviolent, low-level drug offenders


Repairing the Voting Rights Act: Congress should move quickly to pass legislation that would fix the damage done to the Voting Rights Act by the Supreme Court and restore the full protections American voters need and deserve. These protections are crucial for young and minority voters, seniors, and other underrepresented groups disproportionately affected by harmful Republican efforts to restrict voting.

Setting a new national standard for early voting: It’s time to set a standard across our country of at least 20 days of early in-person voting, including opportunities for evening and weekend voting. This will reduce long lines and give more people an opportunity to vote, especially those who have work or family obligations during the day. Early in-person voting isn’t just convenient—it’s also more secure, more reliable, and more affordable than absentee voting.


Implementing universal, automatic voter registration: Every citizen in every state should be automatically registered to vote when they turn 18, unless they choose to opt out. At the same time, we need to make sure that registration rolls are secure, up to date, and accurate. When you move, your registration should move with you. Modernizing registration will add tens of millions of voters to the rolls, cost less, and reduce the potential for errors or irregularities.


Investing in the long term.
Rewarding businesses that invest in their workers. We will encourage profit-sharing in the private sector so that workers can benefit from the record profits they’re helping to produce. And we will reform our tax code to reward businesses that invest in workers and production here in America, rather than shifting jobs and investments overseas.
Helping Americans succeed at work and at home. When workers feel secure, they are more productive, efficient, and successful. So we will make sure they don’t have to choose between keeping their jobs and taking care of themselves, a child, or a sick family member. We will work to make sure they receive their schedules with enough notice to arrange child care. And we will finally raise the minimum wage.
Rein in Wall Street. Just seven years ago, our country was rocked by a crisis on Wall Street. Through no fault of their own, families lost jobs, homes, and dreams. Yet the financial lobby and Republicans in Congress have shown that they are committed to unraveling the key reforms the Dodd-Frank Act put in place to protect consumers and keep a crisis like this from happening again. We will defend Dodd-Frank against attacks and take additional steps to rein in banks that are still too big and too risky.

Women’s issues are family issues, economic issues, and crucial to our future competitiveness.

As president, Hillary will:

Work to close the pay gap. Women earn less than men across our economy—and women of color often lose out the most. Hillary will promote pay transparency across the economy and work to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, a bill she introduced as senator, to give women the tools they need to fight workplace discrimination.

Fight for paid family leave. No one should have to choose between keeping their job and taking care of a sick family member, and no parent should have to go back to work right after they welcome their newborn baby. A quarter of all women in America return to work within ten days of having a child because they have no paid leave. The United States is the only country in the developed world without guaranteed paid leave of any kind. That has to change.

Make quality, affordable childcare a reality for families. We need to recognize that quality, affordable child care is not a luxury—it’s a growth strategy. Women are now the primary or co-breadwinners in two-thirds of families with children. But out-of-pocket child care costs have soared by nearly 25 percent during the past decade. We need to make investing in child care a national priority—including supporting on-campus child care and scholarships to meet the needs of the nearly 5 million American college students who are also parents.

Increase the minimum wage. The current minimum wage isn’t enough for Americans to meet their basic needs. Because women represent nearly two-thirds of all minimum wage workers, many women are living that reality every day. A higher minimum wage will help close the gender pay gap, lift millions of women out of poverty, and have a ripple effect across our economy. While we work to raise the federal minimum wage, Hillary will also support state and local efforts to go above the federal floor.


Defend and enhance Social Security. Hillary believes Social Security is an American success story. She is committed to defending it from Republican attacks and enhancing it to meet new realities—especially for women. The poverty rate among widowed and divorced women who are 65 years or older is nearly 70 percent higher than for the elderly population as a whole. This unacceptably high poverty rate is partly due to an unfair policy: Two-breadwinner families can face steep reductions in their benefits when a spouse dies. It’s time to change that.

Protect women’s health and reproductive rights. Women’s personal health decisions should be made by a woman, her family, and her faith, with the counsel of her doctor. Hillary will stand up to Republican attempts to defund Planned Parenthood, which would restrict access to critical health care services, like cancer screenings, contraception, and safe, legal abortion. She will fight to protect the Affordable Care Act, which bans insurance companies from discriminating against women and guarantees 47 million women and counting access to preventive care.

Confront violence against women. One in five women in America is sexually assaulted while in college. Twenty-two percent of women experience severe physical violence by an intimate partner at some point in their lifetime. American women are 11 times more likely to be murdered with guns than women in other high-income countries. It’s time to address violence against women—and Hillary will put forward bold plans to do that.

Promote women’s rights around the globe. As secretary of state, Hillary made it a priority to advance the rights of women and girls around the globe. In far too many parts of the world, women are still held back by social, economic, and legal barriers. One in every three girls in developing countries is married before the age of 18, and laws in 79 countries still restrict the type of work women can do. Hillary knows these laws hold societies back and that promoting gender equality around the world—from ensuring that girls have equal access to education, to making women safe from sexual violence, to promoting equal economic opportunity—will promote a more just, secure, and prosperous global community.

Hillary has a record of fighting for women and girls:

After graduating from Yale Law School, Hillary chose not to take a prestigious job at a law firm. Instead, she became an advocate for women, families, and children. She went to work at the Children’s Defense Fund, where she helped expand access to education for children with disabilities.

As first lady of Arkansas, she helped start Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families. 

As first lady of the United States, Hillary was a staunch advocate for women and children’s issues. She led the U.S. delegation to the U.N. Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, where she proclaimed that “women’s rights are human rights.” She also advocated for the Family and Medical Leave Act, which provides leave for new parents or those with a sick loved one, and she worked to increase funding for child care.

As senator from New York, Hillary championed access to emergency contraception and voted in favor of strengthening a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions. She also championed the Paycheck Fairness Act and co-sponsored the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act in an effort to achieve equal pay and help close the wage gap. She fought for legislation to guarantee paid sick leave and paid parental leave for all federal employees.

As secretary of state, Hillary made women’s rights a cornerstone of U.S. foreign policy. She created the now-permanent position of ambassador-at-large for global women’s issues and helped launch the first U.S. strategy to prevent and respond to gender-based violence globally. She also advanced women’s economic empowerment, championed programs to prevent and respond to gender-based violence, and spearheaded public-private partnerships to improve the status of women and girls.

Every American should be able to learn the skills they need to compete and succeed. 


Hillary believes that every American—especially young people—should be able to learn the skills they need to get hired, seize new opportunities at work, get promoted, and contribute in a 21st-century workforce. 

Hillary’s workforce and skills agenda will help people get good jobs with good wages throughout their careers. 

For workers and job-seekers, this means providing more robust, coherent, and accessible training programs and resources that are up to date for 21st-century technology and that lead to good jobs and lifelong skills and credentials.

For training providers, Hillary will ensure that good programs that provide high quality training, including at community colleges, are given the support they need to scale up and respond to the needs of the local workforce and employers—while insisting on accountability, transparency, and results.

For government, Hillary will make sure federal, state, and local workforce development resources are used to bring together workers, unions, employers and training providers at every level, in order to prepare workers for good jobs.

For employers, this plan encourages businesses to invest in their workers for the long term through training, apprenticeships, and creating good jobs.

As part of this agenda, Hillary is calling for a tax credit for businesses that hire apprentices, providing much needed on-the-job training—especially for young Americans. 

Her plan would put forward a tax credit for businesses of $1,500 per apprentice and would insist on accountability for employment and earnings outcomes for programs receiving the credit. Hillary’s plan will also grant a bonus on that tax credit to businesses for providing opportunities specifically for young people.

