America’s Education System Needs A Disruption
Our current higher education system is outdated and fundamentally broken. It is too expensive, too time consuming, and too difficult to access. Unfortunately, the ideas President Obama offers does nothing to deal with the underlying problems in the current system. Instead, they would double-down on Washington’s failed strategy of spending more taxpayer money on the same outdated model. This will not be good enough.
While higher education was merely an option for most Americans in the last century, today it is a necessity for nearly everyone. This is because our economy has fundamentally changed. Technology has replaced many low-skilled jobs, and the higher-paying jobs of tomorrow require more advanced skills than ever before. To make the 21st century an American century, we must bring higher education within reach of all.
With so many new ways to share and access knowledge, there is no reason our people should still have to spend tens of thousands of dollars and four years on a campus to earn degrees. It’s time for Washington to embrace the 21st century. As president, rather than attempting to simply cover the symptoms of high tuition rates, I will fundamentally overhaul higher education to change how we provide degrees, how those degrees are accessed, how much that access costs, how those costs are paid, and even how those payments are determined.
First, I will reform our accreditation system to welcome low-cost, innovative higher education providers, which are currently being blocked by the existing institutions that control accreditation. This will transform higher education by exposing it to the market forces of choice and competition. The needs of students will become the primary driving force. As more affordable and accessible providers enter, existing colleges and universities will be forced to lower their prices to stay competitive.
Next, I will help students and families earn the right degree at the right price from the right institution for them. I’ll require schools to tell students how much they can expect to earn with a given degree before they take out the loans to pay for it. I will open financial aid programs that allow working students to go to school at night, online, and on weekends. I will make career and vocational education more widespread, even allowing high school students like those President Obama will be speaking to today to graduate with a certification to instantly enter a good-paying career.
I will create new alternatives to student loans. I will also tie traditional loan repayment to each graduate’s income, enabling those who earn more to pay back their loans faster and those who earn less to make smaller payments over a longer period of time. This will dramatically reduce the financial risks of earning a degree.
If we take these steps to transform higher education, families won’t struggle as much to afford college — and the government won’t have to spend as much, or tax as much, to help them pay. While President Obama’s plan would spend $60 billion to provide free access to community college, my plan would ensure students have multiple affordable options so they don’t feel pressured to pick the one government will pay for. While President Obama’s plan would double down on outdated methods of earning degrees, my plan would allow students to combine what they already know with faster and more affordable pathways to a degree.
Higher education is only one of the outdated institutions I will modernize as president. Its failings demonstrate how 20th century institutions cannot be used to access 21st century opportunities, and President Obama’s adherence to the old way of doing things demonstrates the need for a new president with new ideas. Embracing the future with enthusiasm and vision is the only way to create a new American century.You can pass all the gun laws you want, but criminals are going to ignore it because they are criminals.President Obama's One-Sided Concessions To Cuba Are Flat Out Dangerous
ShareTweetEmailConcessions to our enemies?
Cuba's government is an enemy of the United States, and here's why it should matter to every American.
Cuba's government opposes American interests at every turn. They are proven state sponsors of terrorism. They are ruled by a dictator  by acknowledging his legitimacy, President Obama has sent a terrible message to the world.
That's why President Obama's one-sided concessions to Cuba are flat out dangerous.
Cuba's economy is controlled by a holding company, that is in turn controlled by their military. Money flowing into Cuba as a result of Obama's new policies is going straight to their government  a regime that has actively worked against U.S. interests at every turn.
Obama made concessions, with nothing in return  giving Cuba's government more resources to continue its dangerous actions toward the U.S. and against freedom-loving people throughout the Western Hemisphere.
This Is How to Eliminate Our Irresponsible Debt
Let states return unused federal funds to help pay off our $18 trillion debt.
After it was suspended for more than a year, the debt ceiling went back into effect on Sunday, leaving leaders in Washington scrambling to ensure America can meet her most basic financial obligations. The Department of the Treasury has now promised to take “extraordinary measures” to avoid default, but these are only expected to delay the problem until later this year.
This means that Congress will soon be asked once again to raise the debt limit, and President Obama and congressional Democrats will once again resist Republican efforts to reduce spending. They will send the American people the same message they have sent for the past six years: that our rate of debt accrual is harmless and necessary.
In reality, it is neither. Washington’s addiction to irresponsible spending is the result not of necessity but of a stubborn resistance to reform. And our $18.1 trillion debt is not just a problem for government; it is a problem for the American people. It will encumber our economy today and shackle future generations tomorrow.
Our $18 trillion debt amounts to almost $150,000 per household. Our families and our children are on the hook for this. The bill might not come in the mail, but if we do nothing to change course, it will come in the form of higher taxes, cuts to our safety net, fewer jobs, and fewer opportunities to achieve the American Dream.
Perhaps most frightening of all, it will cost us in safety and national security. As former secretary of defense Robert Gates said: “At some point, financial insolvency at home will turn into strategic insolvency abroad.” And as former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mike Mullen warned: “The single biggest threat to our national security is our debt.”
With these risks in mind, how should we pay down our national debt? Some will tell you the answer is to hike taxes, particularly on the rich. History has taught us two things about this approach: One, it will not even come close to yielding enough revenue to put a dent in the debt, and two, it will kill job creation and economic growth.
Our answer, instead, should be twofold.
First, we need to reduce spending. This begins by reforming the two biggest drivers of our debt, which are a pair of vitally important programs: Social Security and Medicare. If left unreformed, these programs will be bankrupt by the time my generation retires, and they will bankrupt our nation in the process. We need to reform Social Security and Medicare to save them for future seniors, and we need to do so without affecting the benefits of current seniors or those nearing retirement.
To reduce spending, we’ll also need a balanced-budget amendment to compel Washington to live within its means, as well as smaller-scale solutions such as the REFUND Act, a bill I am reintroducing today that will give states the ability to return unused federal funds for the specific purpose of paying down the debt.
The second solution to our national debt is vibrant economic growth. A growing economy will create more jobs, more taxpayers, and more prosperity. It is the only way to get the tax revenue we need to begin chipping away at the $18.1 trillion we owe.
I have proposed a number of reforms to create growth. The most recent is a comprehensive tax-reform plan in partnership with Senator Mike Lee. The Tax Foundation found that our plan, over the next decade, would increase GDP by 15 percent, boost wages by 12.5 percent, and create almost 2.7 million full-time jobs. One expert wrote that it would do “more to encourage growth than any [tax code] the U.S. has had since the 1920s.”
These twin goals — a responsible reduction in federal spending and a massive increase in economic growth — are not just the best path toward financial stability; they are the only path. If we do not pursue these objectives, the promise of this century will pass us by. Bit by bit, billion by billion, our debt will halt private-sector investment, kill job creation, and hamper any prospect of economic growth. If you don’t believe me, look at Greece.
Alternatively, if Washington starts living by the same common sense that American families live by, we can lower the debt limit rather than raise it, and we can reclaim the American Dream and bring it into reach of more people than ever before. Our children are counting on us to reverse course before it is too late.
Demand Better Treatment of Our Veterans
We've all seen the news and read the startling reports, and there is no other way to say it  the VA has FAILED our veterans, and is continuing to fail them every day.
That's why Marco led the fight in the Senate last year to pass the VA Management Accountability Act. It was based on a pretty simple premise from the private sector  if someone isn't doing their job at the VA, they can be fired.
Nothing could be simpler. We need to make sure those directly responsible for the terrible performance of the VA can be held accountable.
Unfortunately, the VA isn't using the law as intended, and Senator Rubio is continuing to fight for more accountability and better results from the VA  because nothing is more important than taking care of our veterans!Government Is Crashing the Internet Party
The Internet is the most open and inclusive economic arena in world history. With it, a student in his or her dorm room is just as capable of creating a popular service as any billion-dollar company, a single mom designing T-shirts in her living room can access just as many potential customers as the largest department store and anyone with a big idea can bypass financial kingmakers and go directly to the public for capital.
The Internet, more than any invention in history, brings together a perfect storm of free market forces: low barriers to entry, unencumbered contact between consumers and providers, and instant feedback for new ideas. It has become a thriving exhibition of the power of free people operating in a free market to create prosperity and opportunity.
Predictably, the federal government wants to crash the party. The Federal Communications Commission’s recent 332-page plan to regulate the Internet is being sold as “net neutrality,” which is an existing concept predicated on preventing Internet service providers from creating “fast lanes” and “slow lanes” for different content. But there are several significant problems.
First, while the FCC plan supposedly seeks to prevent ISPs from playing favorites, it does so by giving that power to another entity: government. This is illogical, particularly because the federal government is adept at rigging the economy in favor of powerful interests. The answer to correcting injustice in an economy is to increase consumer power, not government power.
Second, the issue of ISPs creating different speed lanes is not the injustice that it is made out to be. There are hardly any cases of it to begin with, and any deals that do take place are just as likely to benefit consumers by allowing highly trafficked sites to accommodate their visitors. This is why FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai, who voted against the plan, called it “a solution that won’t work to a problem that doesn’t exist.”
Third, the primary function of the FCC’s plan goes far beyond the goal of net neutrality. It would use Title II of the Communications Act of 1934 to label Internet service providers as public utilities. As Commissioner Michael O’Rielly wrote, “Net neutrality is now the pretext for deploying Title II to a far greater extent than anyone could have imagined just months ago.”
By labeling ISPs as public utilities, an extraordinary amount of power over the Internet, including case-by-case discretion, would be given to an unelected, unaccountable board that every lobbyist, lawyer and crony capitalist with a vested interest in the Internet will seek to manipulate.
Many foreign governments are watching these moves closely as they pursue their goal of greater international control over the Internet. The move won’t turn America into China or Cuba when it comes to government control over our online lives, but it will give federal bureaucrats a foot in the door to start unseating market forces. And never once has the government gotten a foot in the door of any industry and been satisfied to stop pushing its way in.
While our leaders can’t be bothered to fix the many institutions in America that are actually broken, they are eager to “fix” the one thing in America that works the best. With friends like government, the Internet needs no enemies.
Throughout this debate, Americans have been given a false choice: either you are for the FCC’s plan, or you are for a lawless Internet. This represents a cynical view of free markets and a misunderstanding of government’s role in protecting them. I believe government’s role is not to regulate the actions of a few, but rather to empower all.
That’s why I have pursued bipartisan ways to safeguard and reinforce Internet freedom and digital opportunity. Last Congress, I introduced a resolution with Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) calling on the federal government to oppose international efforts to cede greater Internet regulatory power to the International Telecommunications Union. It was passed by both chambers of Congress.How To Seize America’s Energy Potential In The 21st Century
Today I will be visiting Oklahoma City to meet with some of the leaders of America’s energy revolution. Developments in shale-oil production such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling have opened up new and exciting possibilities for a secure energy future for our nation. Yet this week, President Obama traveled to Alaska to talk not about seizing our energy potential, but about limiting that potential through environmental policies that grow government and raise costs. I believe this is an outrageous misalignment of priorities.
It is hard to think of a single industry that has a more direct impact on Americans’ financial well-being than the energy industry. Our energy resources truly sustain our human resources. Our businesses need to be able to operate affordably and efficiently in order to create jobs and grow our economy. Our families need reasonable gas and electric bills in order to reach financial security. Working moms and dads need to be able to commute to work without breaking the bank.
Yet despite the importance of this industry, our outdated government has made energy one of the most politicized and regulated aspects of our economy. It picks winners and losers through subsidies and higher taxes. And while some of the environmental concerns influencing regulations are legitimate, others are seriously overblown. A small but vocal minority, with some very highly paid lobbyists, has successfully pushed for restrictions that result in higher prices and fewer jobs for our people in exchange for minimal environmental benefits.
I believe that the vast majority of Americans  both Democrats and Republicans  are very reasonable when it comes to balancing ecology with the economy. And I believe it is conservatives, not liberals, who ultimately have the more sustainable and forward-looking agenda. This is because the true path to an economically and environmentally secure energy future is not through regulation, but through innovation.Iran Nuclear Deal: Obama's Desperation is Showing. And It's Dangerous
As the nuclear negotiations with Iran reach their final phase, President Obama increasingly finds himself at odds with reality. Although the United States has worked for years to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons while limiting Tehran’s attempts to be a regional hegemon, the president’s desperation to secure a deal ­- at whatever cost -­ places both of these goals at serious risk.
Rather than stand firm against Iran’s regional expansionism and its constantly shifting nuclear redlines, the president has gone to great lengths to avoid alienating Tehran and repeatedly revised his own definition of success. The result is that Iranian demands and red lines are dictating the contours of the emerging deal, instead of the interests of the U.S. and our Middle East allies forging the way ahead.
This was seen most recently in the White House response to Iranian demands that all sanctions be lifted on day one. Even though the Obama administration has long assured deal skeptics that sanctions would be lifted only on proof of good behavior, Obama’s State Department reiterated that sanctions relief will only begin “after Iran has completed its major nuclear steps.” This position is itself a concession that could provide Iran with significant financial relief within months even before it comes completely clean about its past illicit activities.
Massive up-front relief like this would reward Tehran for its intransigence and rob it of any incentive to keep its word. It would obviate any remaining pressure to follow through on the deal’s requirements while using that cash to fuel its aggressive expansion throughout the Middle East.Stand Strong Against Iran
Once again, President Obama has negotiated from a position of weakness this time with Iran. And once again, America’s safety and security are threatened because of this president’s unserious approach to foreign policy.
Let me be clear; I stand with Israel and its Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on any nuclear agreement with Iran containing an unambiguous Iranian recognition of Israel’s right to exist.
We must negotiate from a position of strength with Iran, and be very clear with them: until the regime chooses a different path, the United States will continue to isolate Iran and impose pressure.Stop ISIS Terrorists Now, Before It's Too Late
America must show leadership and help defeat ISIS
(The following piece first ran on CNN.com on June 27, 2014)
As the terrorist group the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) continues to capture and control more territory in Iraq and Syria, it is important to realize what is at stake in the region and for the American people.
The challenge that ISIS poses is not just to Iraq's stability but also to U.S. security. ISIS is a terrorist group with their own army and bank account that has a clear and growing ability to conduct terrorist attacks against the Iraqi government, Americans and U.S. interests, and even the U.S. homeland.
ISIS, although loosely affiliated with al Qaeda, is in many respects even more extreme in its methods and its brutality than the terrorists who plotted and carried out 9/11.
Although until now ISIS has focused its military goals on Syria and Iraq, its ranks include thousands of jihadists who have streamed into Syria and now into Iraq from around the globe as well as known terrorists who have been released or freed from Iraqi prisons.
ISIS's goal is to secure its hold over large swathes of territory in Syria and Iraq, to establish an Islamic state or caliphate that stretches across the heart of the Middle East.
As we have learned in the past, terrorists seek safe havens from which to operate, often in failed or failing states. They use this territory to train and equip themselves, raise funds and plot attacks.
In addition to the threat to the U.S. homeland, we also need to be concerned that if Iraq begins to fragment, the resulting chaos and instability will ripple throughout the region.
ISIS has sown incredible instability in Syria and is now seeking to do the same in Iraq. If we allow ISIS to spread further, their next targets will be U.S. allies and partners already under sufficient strain from the ongoing conflict in Syria, such as Jordan and even Saudi Arabia.
We have an imperfect partner in Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, who has shown himself unable to govern inclusively. We need to make clear to Baghdad that significant U.S. assistance will not be possible unless a national unity government is formed that does not include al-Maliki.
Iran has already entered the fight on behalf of the al-Maliki government in Baghdad. But if we delegate this problem to Iran, we are likely to see the creation of a Shiite rump state that would effectively become an Iranian proxy and extend Iran's reach and influence from the Gulf of Oman to the Mediterranean Sea.
So, what should we do?
First and foremost, we need to move now to degrade ISIS's capabilities. The President's decision to send 300 advisers to Iraq is a good first step, but their ability to deter ISIS will be limited unless we eventually engage in airstrikes to target their leaders as well as the supply lines that they use to transfer weapons and fighters between Syria and Iraq. We know where these supply lines are, we should not hesitate to halt the ISIS resupply to their strongholds in Anbar, Ninawa and Salah ad-Din.
Second, we also need to understand that our lack of an effective Syria strategy has allowed ISIS to take hold and flourish in the region.
ISIS has been able to develop its capabilities, increase its ranks, and obtain combat experience for its fighters over the last 18 months in northern Syria.
We need to begin to tackle the root causes of the problem in Syria by overtly arming the moderate Syrian rebels that are fighting ISIS in that country even as we simultaneously tackle the challenge they currently pose to Iraq.
The U.S. and allies should consider additional counter terrorism measures in Syria, perhaps working with regional partners. This is all a response to the same problem, and must be part of a unified strategy.
The President's long overdue announcement on Thursday of an overt plan to train and equip moderates in the opposition is a welcome development, but we need to do much more to finally deal with the threat that the Syrian conflict poses to regional stability and ultimately, to U.S. security.
Third, as ISIS has gained ground in Iraq, its wealth and ability to make money have increased. We need to stop their ability to sell the Syrian and Iraqi oil they attempt to market to the outside world. We also need a new diplomatic strategy to counter ISIS funding and support.
Unfortunately, some of our partners in the Gulf have contributed to this problem. Others in the region have turned a blind eye to foreign fighters flocking to the fight. This needs to end.
Finally, our partners in the region need our support. Jordan deserves special attention and assistance. Jordan is already dealing with an influx of hundreds of thousands of refugees from the conflict in Syria. Jordan is a close partner of the United States and a likely target of ISIS's attention. In recent days, the group captured the border crossing between Iraq and Jordan.
The United States should find ways to make clear that the United States will defend Jordan's security, including militarily if necessary.
Some will argue that the challenges faced by Iraq or countries such as Jordan are none of our business. That we have spent too many years, lives, and dollars trying to make Iraq and the broader Middle East a better place.
None of the options before us are ideal, but the question is whether we take action against ISIS now or deal with the consequences later here on U.S. soil.
The stakes are too high for us to continue to ignore this problem.President Obama Has Failed To Stand With Israel
Israel deserves our support and respect. We must stand strong with Israel.
We have a national security interest in making sure Israel is strong, and we have a moral obligation to keep the promise made in the wake of the Holocaust for a safe and secure nation for the Jewish people.
Sadly, under the current Administration, that commitment to Israel has been lacking.
The list of ways in which the President has failed to stand with Israel is long and embarrassing, culminating in it taking him days to congratulate Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on his electoral victory this year after having made it a point to call Vladimir Putin, leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and the Iranian President after winning their “elections.”
Israel is exactly what America wants and needs as an ally, especially in the Middle East. They are a strong free-market democracy, something we desperately need more of in the region.
Israel deserves our support and respect. If we are perceived as not standing with Israel, what realistically could any of our other allies expect from us? It’s time to reaffirm our commitment to Israel’s continued strength and prosperity.Life Is A Definitional Issue
Being a candidate for president, I give a lot of speeches on a lot of issues – and they are all important political and policy issues that confront our country. But the issue we are here to discuss today – the issue of life – is not a political issue, nor is it strictly a policy issue.
It is a definitional issue – an issue about what sort of society we want to have.
And the reason I am so honored to speak here today is because I believe the issue of life gets to the heart of what this election is all about. I’ll explain why in a moment.
But first, I often begin by telling people about my parents. The reason I do that is because I believe their story is emblematic of the larger American story, and it serves as a reminder to me of why this country is so special.
My parents were born in a society like most in the world, where your potential was determined by factors outside of your control. It was determined by your last name, by what jobs your parents held, or by the whims of government. So my parents came to the one society on earth dedicated to the idea that every human life is equal, every human life has potential, and every human life deserves a shot at success.
My parents were given their shot in America, and they made the most of it. They never got rich, but they found good jobs – my father worked as a bartender at hotel banquets, and my mother as a maid, a cashier, and later a stock clerk at K-Mart. And through these jobs, they earned comfortable wages, raised their children in a safe neighborhood, provided for our needs, retired with dignity, and most important of all, left their children with lives even better than their own.
These achievements are universally sought after, but they are achieved so often in America – and so seldom in most other places – that they have come to be known around the world by a new name: the American Dream.
Today, there are too many Americans who feel as if this Dream is out of reach, as if they lack the ability to reach their full potential. And so connected to the issue of the innate value of every human life is the question of how we help everyone achieve their God-given potential in 21st century America. And the answer involves all sorts of political and policy issues. I am running for president to address these, to ensure everyone has a shot at achieving the same Dream my family has achieved.
But inseparable from the effort to reclaim the American Dream are the efforts of those of you in this room. And here’s why: because it is fundamentally impossible to live a free, successful and fulfilling life in America if you do not have a life in the first place. And it is fundamentally impossible for America to reach her destiny as a nation founded on the equal rights of all if our government believes an entire segment of the human population doesn’t have a right to exist.
And that’s why the issue of life is more than political or policy-related. It is a definitional issue about the kind of country we want to be. In a world where life is increasingly not valued, where people are summarily discarded, America must stand for the belief that all life is worthy of protection, because all life comes from God.
Our nation has strayed from this purpose. Our government – ever since a historically, egregiously flawed Supreme Court decision – has condoned the taking of innocent life on a massive scale. And particularly under our current president, America has declined to stand on the side of life around the world.
The White House needs an occupant who values and prioritizes life. And so my pledge to you is this: if you send me to that place, I will not forget this place. I will bring our advocacy to the White House, and we’ll get things done. We will advance the cause of life at home and around the world.
Sometimes in contemporary American life, we come to believe that all the great causes are over, that past generations fought all the important battles: abolition, the civil rights movement, women’s suffrage. But it’s not true. In fact, one of the most important battles is the one you’re engaged in now.
You can judge a cause by the arguments made on both sides. And I rarely meet anyone who’s willing to say they’re pro-abortion. They’ll say they’re pro-choice, but almost everyone I’ve met says they personally disagree with abortion. That alone tells us a little about the basic common sense this issue is built on.
But when you call upon someone to defend their support for abortion rights, they’ll make some arguments that, in my opinion, are truly indefensible. For example, they may start by saying: It’s an unwanted child – if a child is going to enter life and not be wanted by his or her parents, it’s somehow “for the best” that the child never be brought into the world in the first place.
But this simply cannot be the justification for abortion. Because, sadly, there are a lot of unwanted children born around the world. They’re orphaned, they’re born disabled, they’re born to families that cannot afford them. No advocate for abortion would ever say those children lack the right to life. And so when you ask them about that, they quickly move away from that argument because it’s indefensible.
Then they pivot to the idea that a woman has a right to do anything she wants with her body. And let’s recognize right now that there is a fundamental right to control your body. But there is also another right: the right to life. Put another way, the child also has a right to his or her body.
And so what we have are two rights in conflict with one another. Yet immediately the other side will say, “Well, our right to choose is more important than the right of an embryo to live, because it’s not a person.” Then my question becomes: if it’s not a person, what is it? Because if you left it alone, that’s the only thing it can become. It can’t develop into a pony!
Next they’ll argue, well, okay, maybe it is a person, but it’s not a life. It cannot be a viable human life if it cannot survive on its own. But by that logic, a one year old isn’t a viable life either. Nor are many of the sick or injured or disabled or elderly – all of whom have potential, all of whom have value, all of whom are loved by God and deserve the protection of our laws.
From conception to natural death, there are only a few things that change about you – among them are your age, your level of dependency, and your environment. That someone can be killed based on any of those factors is, I believe, an indefensible position for any society to hold, but especially a society built on the idea that every human life has inalienable rights from God.
But as important as the intellectual side of this debate is, it’s just as important to step back and remember that the greatest argument for the pro-life cause is already in the heart of every human being. There is an innate understanding in all of us of just how precious human life is, and appealing to that is ultimately how I believe our cause will triumph.
I’ll share with you my personal experience, but I’m sure this is true for all of you who are blessed to be parents. From the first instant Jeanette and I found out we were expecting children, they were ours. They were not grainy ultrasound pictures. They were not inhuman collections of cells. They were children, and they were our children. Long before we knew their genders or their names or their personalities, we dreamed about their futures, and we knew God was watching them and caring for them just as we were.
Every single person alive today was once that grainy ultrasound picture. And it is deeply disturbing for us to think of anyone – whether a parent, or a politician, or a Supreme Court justice – having a debate about our own viability as a person, at that stage or any stage. For our cause to triumph, we must help people extend that understanding of innate value to those they cannot see.
But this requires a great deal of love and care. For we know that the decision facing so many women and young girls is achingly complicated – the 15 year old with her whole life ahead of her, the young single woman who struggles to provide for herself and can’t imagine handling the costs of a child, the mom and dad faced with the knowledge that their child will be born with unique challenges.
So as fundamental as the knowledge of life’s value is to every person, it would be unfair to assume that the decision is always simple. And this is where the definitional issue of life meets the political and policy issues of the American Dream. We must find a way to ensure that every parent in this circumstance – and every child brought into the world – has the hope of overcoming their challenges to fulfill God’s plan for their lives.
I’m reminded today of a speech I gave almost a decade ago, back when I was designated Speaker of the Florida House. I was to address my colleagues on the job before us. But I wanted to do more than tell them what we would do. I wanted to tell them why we needed to do it. I wanted to explain the stakes of public policy and public service. So I gave the example of a hypothetical young woman. Here’s what I said:
Today, somewhere in Florida, a young single mother will give birth to her first child. Maybe she comes from a broken home, or maybe, even worse, she has grown up bouncing from one foster home to the next. In either case, she’s probably grown up in poverty, trapped in failing schools. She reads at a low reading level. She never graduated high school. Lost and alone, she has spent the better part of her young life in search of someone to love her. And, in that quest, she has been in and out of a series of relationships with irresponsible and abusive men, including the now absent father of her new child. While she receives a significant amount of public assistance, it has done little to improve her life. She is trapped in poverty. Up to this point in her life, little has gone right for her. But today, her life has changed forever. Today, she held her firstborn child in her arms for the first time. And at that moment, she was no different than parents all over the world, rich and poor, privileged and disadvantaged alike. Today, when she looked into the eyes of her child for the first time, she saw what your mother saw in your eyes and what my mother saw in mine. She saw all the hopes and dreams she once had for herself. And in her heart burns the hope that everything that has gone wrong in her life will go right for that child, that all the opportunities she never had, her child will.
A lot of people at the time told me not to include that section in my speech, but I’m glad I did. Because public policy and public service aren’t about abstract ideas, they are about human lives.
And at play in the scenario of this mother and child are two equally important issues affecting life. The first is the most fundamental: and that is the right of that child to be born. We fought that fight during my time in the Florida legislature. The second issue is this: to fully defend the dignity of that child’s life, we must bring the hope of the American Dream – the hope of pursuing God’s plan – within reach of every child and every parent in every circumstance. And I’m proud to say we fought that fight as well throughout my time as Speaker.
And the reason I recount this to you today is because this is also the cause of our time on the national level. Today, that hypothetical child I spoke of would be almost 10 years old. I believe we made a difference in his or her life during my time in the Florida House. But the work is not done. Bringing the American Dream within reach of that child and that mother must remain the work of our time.
We must create the high-paying jobs of this new century. We must bring an affordable and accessible higher education within reach of both mother and child so they can get the higher-paying jobs our economy will create. We must implement a pro-growth and pro-family tax reform that encourages marriage rather than punishes it, and that provides the mom with an expanded child tax credit so she can keep more of what she earns. And we must defend the values that will give that child a shot at succeeding in society, and at one day starting a successful and rewarding family of their own.
This is far from a complete list of what we must do. But let me just close by saying this: the goal of reclaiming the American Dream – which is itself about defending the potential of every human being – can never be complete if we do not succeed in defending the basic right of every human life to exist. These causes must be joined. No candidate who fights for one without the other can claim a complete agenda.
We often hear at conferences like this that an unborn child can’t vote and can’t speak. It’s an important point, but I’d like to argue that it’s actually not true. They can speak. They speak through you.
In this competition between two competing sets of rights, you are the voice of children who cannot speak for themselves, of lives that may never have a chance to contribute to our society and make a difference, of the unknown names of millions of children whose contributions to our world will never happen because the right to life was not respected. You vote for them when you vote.
And that is why your work is so important to reclaiming the American Dream, and why our nation needs you to remain active in this election.
God bless you for your work, and thank you for the opportunity to speak here today.My Vision For Europe
By Marco Rubio
As seen in Politico on 5/8/2015
Today is the 70th anniversary of the allied victory in Europe — a day that stands as one of the greatest triumphs of freedom over oppression, liberty over tyranny, and good over evil in the history of the world. It speaks to the power of free peoples and free nations uniting together to pursue shared security and shared prosperity.
Even after 70 years, the U.S.-European partnership continues to play a vital role in global affairs. The defense of our people, the promotion of our interests, and the stability of an increasingly interconnected world all require us to cooperate closely, particularly given the renewed challenges we face.
One such challenge is Russia’s blatant attempt to overturn the post-World War II order in Europe. Handling this crisis will require innovative thinking from our alliance. Our goal should never be to needlessly antagonize Russia, but rather to ensure our efforts to strengthen Ukraine and rollback Russian aggression are coupled with a forward-looking agenda for Russia’s own future.
&#8230;.
A more robust response to Russia’s ongoing aggression in Ukraine would reflect the same shared values that emerged victorious 70 years ago today. That victory was not just about the defeat of an enemy; it was also about the spread of a sacred ideal. As is written on the World War II memorial in Washington, D.C.: “Americans came to liberate, not to conquer — to restore freedom and to end tyranny.”
As we face our own challenges today, let us never forget the sacrifices made by our ancestors 70 years ago. Let us always remember that the freedoms we cherish now were preserved by those who came before us, and that just like the greatest generation, we have a duty to preserve liberty for all those in the transatlantic community and beyond.
To read the article in its entirety, please click here.This Is Why Defense Spending Must Grow
Defense cuts have been disastrous for our ability to project power and deter our enemies.
(The following op-ed by Senators Marco Rubio and Tom Cotton originally ran on March 26, 2015 on CNN.com)
With majorities in both chambers of Congress, it is time for Republicans to begin rolling back six years of failed Obama administration policies.
Our highest priority during the ongoing budget debate should be undoing the damage caused by defense sequestration and the hundreds of billions of dollars of defense cuts made by the Obama administration.
Regrettably, military strength is seen in many quarters as the cause of military adventurism. A strong, robust defense is seen not to deter aggression, but to provoke it. For years, we have systematically underfunded our military, marrying a philosophy of retreat with a misplaced understanding of our larger budgetary burdens and the real drivers of the debt: our entitlement programs.
As expected, almost four years after the passage of the Budget Control Act, virtually nothing has been done to address the unsustainable growth of our entitlement programs, while essential defense programs have been sacrificed.
Political leaders in Washington need to be reminded that our defense is the single most important responsibility of the federal government. Instead of starting the process by setting arbitrary defense spending levels and then forcing our military to cut vital programs in order to meet these levels, the budgeting process should start by taking into account all the threats against us, listing the programs and capabilities we’ll need to protect our people and interests around the world, and then funding those efforts.
Even though we’ve been able to keep the homeland safe for more than a decade, the threats to Americans at home and abroad are growing. From the rise of the Islamic State and the spread of Islamic terrorism, to Russia’s aggression in Europe, to Chinese expansionism in the South China Sea, the threats to American security are growing. Yet, even as the world outside our borders is filled with more doubt and uncertainty, the United States has been steadily reducing our spending on defense.
Even before sequestration, President Obama made defense cuts of $487 billion over 10 years and redirected the savings to already bloated domestic programs. This was followed by tens of billions more in defense cuts each year because of sequestration, which, when combined with Obama’s prior cuts, will total $1 trillion over the coming decade. All of these reductions were enacted despite the warnings of four secretaries of defense and our entire military leadership.
The results of these cuts have been disastrous for our military and for our ability to project power and deter our enemies. The slight increase in President Obama’s proposed 2016 budget won’t significantly change that. At the end of this process, our military will be significantly smaller, dramatically less capable and dangerously unready to deploy if these budget cuts remain in place. The Army is on the path to be reduced to pre-World War II levels. The Navy is at pre-WWI levels. And our Air Force has the smallest and oldest combat force in its history.
Our force reductions have been felt throughout the world — by our friends and our enemies. They have presented not just a crisis of readiness for America, but also a perilous strategic weakness. Our adversaries have been emboldened by what they perceive as our diminished military presence.
History has shown that every time we have unreasonably cut resources from our military in anticipation of a peace dividend, it has only cost us more to make up for the deficit we create in military readiness and capability, and the expected era of perpetual peace fails to materialize.
We think we are saving money, but in the long run, we end up paying more and creating more risk and uncertainty.
We can afford the military we need, but we must make it a priority.
For this reason, we introduced an amendment to the Senate budget resolution this week to address the dangerous funding gap our military currently faces. We believe we must increase the resources available to our military to the levels proposed by (former) Defense Secretary Robert Gates in his FY12 budget, the last defense budget based solely on an assessment of the threats we face and the requisite military needs to deal with those threats.
It is the budget that the bipartisan, congressionally-mandated National Defense Panel stated was “the minimum required to reverse course and set the military on a more stable footing.”
Now that Republicans control both house of Congress, it is time to support a defense budget that actually reflects the world in which we live, not the world the way we wish it was.
Until now, our approach as a country and a party since the Budget Control Act has not been one of American strength. Continuing on the current path will only invite war and conflict through weakness.
We need to heed the bipartisan warnings of our nation’s military leaders and get back on track toward a defense budget that reflects the realities of the challenges we face and is worthy of our brave men and women in uniform. In the end, it is they who will suffer the most if sequestration is not reversed and our readiness and equipment continues to degrade. As members of Congress, we have a sacred obligation to ensure that they have the best possible training and equipment so they can successfully complete their missions.
Despite the fiscal constraints imposed on our military, they are doing their part and are holding up their end of the bargain. It’s time that we hold up ours.Obamacare Is A Job-Killing Disaster
A brand new report exposes the impact that Obamacare's out-of-control spending is having on our federal budget. Last year, national health care spending grew by 5.5%  the biggest increase in seven years. Over the next ten years, it will increase by an average of 5.8%, despite President Obama's claim that the massive law would bend the cost curve down.
President Obama was wrong, and so is his failed health care law. It is a job-killing disaster filled with new spending, taxes and mandates that are increasing the cost of care, stifling innovation, and busting the budget.
It's not too late to start over. As President, I will repeal Obamacare and replace it with consumer-centered reforms that not only lower health care costs for millions of Americans, but get federal spending under control. Doing so will not be easy, but it is necessary to restore health care choice, competition, and fiscal responsibility in America.
 Marco RubioMarco Rubio's Three Part Plan for the Post-Obamacare Era
Repeal Obamacare and Replace It With A Conservative Solution
Five years ago, President Obama and Congressional Democrats disregarded both the Constitution and the opinion of the American people when they enacted Obamacare. Since then, Americans have seen the law transition from political to personal. Many have lost access to their longtime doctor. They lost the insurance plan they were happy with. They pay higher premiums or a higher deductible. Maybe it cost them their job, maybe it cost them hours at work, or maybe they’re suffering from all of the above.
As the legislation has been implemented over the last five years, the cracks in the final bill have expanded one by one into full scale crises. President Obama has attempted to patch these problems by writing new rules and regulations on the fly, often with questionable constitutionality. But soon his days of bypassing federal law and the Constitution may catch up to him, and to all of us.
The U.S. Supreme Court has taken up a case related to Obamacare known as King v. Burwell, and its implications are far-reaching. At issue is whether the federal government can subsidize the purchase of health insurance plans made available on the federal exchange. The law states very clearly that it cannot. Should the Supreme Court rule against the subsidies, it would be a significant blow to Obamacare and, unfortunately, to the many Americans who have followed its edicts.
Such a ruling should prove once and for all that Obamacare cannot be fixed and must be fully repealed and replaced. That must be the ultimate goal of Congress and our next president. In the short term, however, we must also recognize the reality that the ruling would leave millions without health insurance. The blame for this, of course, will lie not with the Court, but with the administration for its false and unconstitutional promises.
Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, in a potentially telling moment, publicly expressed confidence that Congress will act if the Court deals a blow to the law. Given our new Republican majorities, I share his confidence. Credible conservative plans have already emerged from Senator Ben Sasse, Congressman Paul Ryan and others. The goal is to provide an off-ramp for our people to escape this law without losing their insurance, and all conservatives in Congress should work together toward this goal.
To mitigate the fallout that will come with the collapse of this law, and to meet the long-term goal of replacing it with conservative solutions, I have worked to assemble a three part plan to serve as a foundation for the post-Obamacare era. While other measures may be necessary to correct the damage done by this law, I believe these three ideas are the crucial elements of a plan to put patients and families back in control of their health care decisions.
First, we should provide an advanceable, refundable tax credit that all Americans can use to purchase health insurance. The value of these credits should increase every year, and we should set the tax preference for employer-sponsored insurance on a glide path to ensure that it will equal the level of the credits at the end of the decade. This will prevent large-scale disruptions and reform one of the most significant distortions in our tax system.
Second, we must reform insurance regulations to encourage innovation. Americans with pre-existing conditions should be able to find coverage through their state's federally-supported, actuarially-sound high risk pools. Americans living in high-cost states should have the opportunity to purchase coverage across state lines. Consumer-centered products like health savings accounts should be expanded. And under no circumstances should taxpayers be asked to bail out an insurance company that loses money, as is currently the case under Obamacare.
Third, we must save Medicare and Medicaid by placing them on fiscally sustainable paths. Without reforms, these programs will eventually cease to be available for those that need them. I believe we must move Medicaid into a per-capita cap system, preserving funding for Medicaid's unique populations while freeing states from Washington mandates. Medicare, meanwhile, should be transitioned into a premium support system, empowering seniors with choice and market competition, just like Medicare Advantage and Part D already do.
It is my hope that all Americans will have access to affordable health insurance in the 21st century. These consumer-centered reforms will advance that goal the only way it can be advanced: by channeling the power of our free market. After the downfall of Obamacare – which I believe has been inevitable from the beginning, but may be precipitated by the Supreme Court decision later this year – a plan such as this will restore our people’s access to quality care.
Over the last five years, Obamacare has revealed the painful consequences of placing our faith in big government. Government’s ambitions may be limitless, but its abilities are not. The free market, when allowed to function as intended, has no such limitations. It has an inexhaustible ability to empower our people and meet their needs. We need leaders in Congress – and in the White House – who will recognize that fact.Our Enemies Will Not Dare Test Us
Marco explains what it takes to build a safer, stronger America in the new American Century.Protecting LIFE at EVERY stage
Protecting life defines who we want to be as a society. All life is worthy of protection, and all life enjoys God&#8217;s love.
I believe that Roe v. Wade was not only morally wrong, but it was a poorly decided legal precedent and should be overturned.
I have a record of supporting pro-life policies, and will continue to do so in public and private life.
I believe that as a nation we must always come down on the side of life. We must speak up for those who cannot speak up for themselves.It's Time To Repeal And Replace ObamaCare
To help more of our people achieve the American Dream, we need to make affordable, quality healthcare accessible in the 21st century. Unfortunately, President Obama's one-size-fits-all, big government approach has failed to achieve this goal. Since ObamaCare’s passage, many Americans have seen the law transition from a political mess to a personal disaster. Some have lost access to their doctors or the insurance plans they were happy with. Many have been forced to pay higher premiums and higher deductibles. Others have lost their jobs or had their hours cut. And the American economy as a whole has labored under the negative effects of Obamacare’s $1.2 trillion tax hike.
A law that was sold on the claim that it would lower healthcare costs has instead caused them to dramatically increase for many American families. Now, a new IRS regulation could force small businesses to pay fines of over $36,000 per employee per year if they choose to make a financial contribution to their employees' health coverage.
ObamaCare is fatally flawed not just because it is poorly constructed, but because it relies on the outdated philosophy that the federal government can solve our problems through more spending, more taxes, more regulations, and more bureaucrats. The American people have been forced to be the test subjects of President Obama’s one-size-fits-all, big-government experiment, and have paid dearly for it.
For all of these reasons and more, I have fought against ObamaCare since I got to the U.S. Senate. I led the charge to stop its taxpayer-funded bailouts of the insurance industry and, fortunately, was successful in blocking them from taking place this year. But more must be done, and when I am president, repealing and replacing ObamaCare will be an urgent priority of my administration. Instead of relying on an outdated, big-government approach, I will utilize modern, consumer-centered reforms that lower costs, embrace innovation in healthcare, and actually increase choices and improve quality of care.
My plan includes three primary components:
First, I will work with Congress to create an advanceable, refundable tax credit that all Americans can use to purchase health insurance. The value of these credits should increase every year, and we should set the tax preference for employer-sponsored insurance on a glide path to ensure that it will equal the level of the credits within a decade. This will prevent large-scale disruptions and reform a provision in our tax code that has been driving up health costs, hurting those who are self-employed, and preventing Americans from having truly portable health insurance plans that travel with them regardless of where they work.
Second, I will reform insurance regulations to lower costs, encourage innovation, and protect the vulnerable. Those with pre-existing conditions should have access to affordable care through mechanisms such as federally-supported, actuarially-sound, and state-based high risk pools. Americans should be able to purchase coverage across state lines so they can seek out affordable coverage regardless of where they live. And consumer-centered products like Health Savings Accounts should be encouraged and expanded. Finally, under no circumstances should taxpayers be asked to bail out an insurance company that loses money, as is currently the case under ObamaCare.
Third, I will take up the difficult work of saving and strengthening Medicare and Medicaid by placing them on fiscally-sustainable paths. Without reforms, these programs will eventually run out of money. We must move Medicaid into a per-capita block grant system, preserving funding for its recipients while freeing states from Washington mandates. While current seniors on Medicare, like my mother, should see no changes to the program, future generations should be transitioned into a premium support system. A premium support model will empower seniors with choice and market competition just like Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D already do.
While other measures may be necessary to undo the damage done by ObamaCare, I believe these three concepts are the core of a plan to lower costs and put patients and families back in control of their healthcare decisions. Unlike ObamaCare, my reforms will not be forced through Congress in the dark of night without accountability. They will not stretch the Constitution to its breaking point or rely on questionable Supreme Court decisions to survive. And, perhaps most importantly, they will not raise taxes on the American people.
ObamaCare’s failures should be all the proof Washington needs that the time has come for a new direction one that empowers the American consumer, expands choices, and reduces the role of the federal government in healthcare. It’s time to set a new precedent in Washington by sending a new president to Washington. I believe I have the experience and vision necessary to improve our healthcare system and make this the next American century.Reporter Tries Grilling Marco On Life. What Happens Next Is Incredible
Marco defends his belief that ALL life is worthy of protection.Marriage Laws Belong To The States
“There is no federal constitutional right to same sex marriage.”
In Iowa last week, David Brody of CBN News asked Marco about the Supreme Court case involving gay marriage. Watch his response here:
“There is no federal constitutional right to same sex marriage. There isn’t such a right. You have to have a ridiculous reading of the U.S. constitution to reach the conclusion that people have a right to marry someone of the same sex. There is no such constitutional right. Can a state decide to change their laws? Yes, but only through the political process…
“They [advocates of same sex marriage] want to stigmatize, they want to ostracize anyone who disagrees with them as haters. It’s very simple. This is not a policy against anyone. I believe, as do a significant percentage of Americans, that the institution of marriage, an institution that existed before government, that existed before laws, that institution should remain in our laws recognized as the union of one man and one woman.”
Later in the day, speaking at the Iowa Faith &amp; Freedom Coalition forum, Marco discussed the historical significance of traditional marriage:he Second Amendment Is A Constitutional Right, Plain and Simple
The Second Amendment is about the American Dream.
I’ve always believed that the Second Amendment is about much more than the right to bear arms. At its core, the Second Amendment is about the American Dream.
The American Dream means having the opportunity to achieve happiness, which is possible, first and foremost, when you can start and raise a family in a home that is stable, safe and secure. 
The safety of our families is not something we should be forced to hope the government can provide – it’s a fundamental right that every American deserves.
Watch this clip from the NRA-ILA Leadership Forum for a more in-depth discussion on the Second Amendment.
x 
Dissenters try and stigmatize gun owners, but as we all know, responsibly exercising one’s Second Amendment right could mean the difference between life and death. 
That's one reason I, myself, have a concealed weapons permit. I have an A rating from the NRA, and recently, I introduced legislation to restore Second Amendment rights in the District of Columbia.
I've done all of that because I believe the Second Amendment is foundational to who we are as a country.  It's about preserving our God-given right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.We Must Have A Pro-Family, Pro-Growth Tax Reform
A New American Century demands reforms that will help spur growth where today's tax code obstructs it.
(By Senators Marco Rubio and Mike Lee. Originally published in The Wall Street Journal on September 22, 2014)
Too many Americans believe the American Dream is slipping away for them and their children. They see their cost of living rise while their paychecks remain stagnant. They see an economy that benefits stockbrokers but not stock clerks. They see the ladder of economic opportunity being pulled farther up and out of their reach.
This isn't the result of a mere cyclical downturn in the U.S. economy, but rather a fundamental transformation. In recent years, old industries have fallen, new ones have risen, the skills required for high-paying jobs have evolved, and the competition at all levels is increasingly global.
Despite these dramatic changes, the policies and practices of Washington remain stuck in the 20th century, leaving too many Americans unable to access the enormous potential of this new era.
If we hope to realize a new American Century, many institutions and government programs will need to be updated, reformed or replaced. Both of us have spent a large portion of the year proposing such reforms.
Perhaps no function of the U.S. government is more antiquated and dysfunctional than its tax system, so we are joining together to propose a federal tax-reform plan that will remove obstacles to investment, innovation, growth and opportunity.
The current tax code taxes too much, taxes unfairly, and conspires with our outmoded welfare system to trap poor families in poverty, rather than facilitate their climb into the middle class. Our reforms seek to simplify the structure and lower rates. How? By consolidating the many existing income tax brackets into two simple brackets—15% and 35%—and eliminating or reforming deductions, especially those that disproportionately benefit the privileged few at everyone else's expense.
In addition, our plan would eliminate the well-known marriage penalty, which imposes higher taxes on married couples than if they had filed individually. It would also take aim at another pernicious distortion—the parent tax penalty—that is more prevalent, if less understood, even by its victims.
Today, parents are, in effect, double charged for the federal senior entitlement programs. They of course pay payroll taxes, like everyone else. But unlike adults without children, they also shoulder the financial burden of raising the next generation of taxpayers, who will grow up to fund the Social Security and Medicare benefits of all future seniors.
This hidden, double burden on parents isn't offset anywhere else in the system, and so true conservative tax reform needs to account for it. Children aren't consumer goods—they are investments parents make in their futures, and in the future of America, and therefore deserve to be treated as such in our tax code.
Our proposal would account for this and level the playing field for working parents by augmenting the current child tax credit of $1,000 with an additional $2,500 credit, applicable against income taxes and payroll taxes—i.e., the taxes that most burden lower- and middle-income families. The credit would not phase out, and would be refundable against income tax and employer and employee payroll tax liability.
Some conservatives we respect wonder if such tax relief for families would do enough to promote growth. But it bears remembering that the end goal of economic policy isn't simply growth, but freedom—clearing the obstacles from each American's unique pursuit of happiness. Millions of Americans up and down the income scale choose to invest their personal economic freedom in children and not just in commerce—in human and social capital rather than just financial capital. We believe it is wrong to punish such a choice.
Our plan would also ensure that our tax code works together with the federal welfare system, so that low-income workers are able to climb into the middle class without having to overcome 80%-100% effective marginal tax rates. Often when a worker gets a modest pay raise, higher taxes and lost benefits conspire to leave the person with little extra money in their pocket. Ending this unfortunate reality will involve retooling the Earned Income Tax Credit in coordination with means-tested programs to create a welfare system that works better and removes poverty traps.
Our reforms would help spur growth where today's tax code obstructs it. On the business side, we would cut the current 35% corporate tax rate to make it competitive in the global economy. The exact rate will be determined as we continue to shape the legislation, but it must be low enough to end the problem of corporate inversions and the loss of American jobs to other nations. We will also allow companies large and small to deduct their expenses and capital investments while integrating all forms of business taxation into a consolidated, single-layer tax.
These reforms would eliminate double-taxation on investment, and enable small businesses and startups to compete on a more level playing field against entrenched incumbents, who for too long have profited from the cronyist giveaways our plan would eliminate.
We will also propose that businesses only be taxed in the country where income is actually earned, rather than double-taxed when the money is brought back home. The way to reverse corporate inversions and bring capital in off the sidelines isn't to punish companies for obeying outmoded laws, but to change those laws to make America once again the best place in the world to pursue happiness and earn success.
In sum, our proposal would make it easier for Americans to find jobs and easier for businesses to create them. It would help restore upward mobility at the bottom of our economy and fair competition at the top. And it would restore equal opportunity to working parents, America's ultimate investor class.
Passing pro-family, pro-growth tax reform should be a cornerstone of our agenda. The plan we have outlined won't only help revive the American Dream, but also make it more attainable for more Americans than ever before.The Disruptive Changes Of The New Global Economy
Today you have millions of people that are starting to doubt whether the American Dream is even in reach for them.
With the right policies we can build a new American Century to make the American Dream a reality for everyone.The Three Best Reasons Hillary Clinton Should Not Be President
The election of Hillary Clinton would just be a third term of the Obama Administration. This country can’t afford that.These Are the Biggest Issues Facing Our Generation
What kind of country will we be?
At the turn of the 19th century, a generation of Americans harnessed the power of the Industrial Age and transformed this country into the leading economy in the world. And the 20th century became the American Century.
Now, the time has come for our generation to lead the way toward a new American Century.
If we reform our tax code, reduce regulations, control spending, modernize our immigration laws and repeal and replace ObamaCare, the American people will create millions of better-paying modern jobs.
If we create a 21st century system of higher education that provides working Americans the chance to acquire the skills they need, that no longer graduates students with mountains of debt and degrees that do not lead to jobs, and that graduates more students from high school ready to work, then our people will be prepared to seize their opportunities in the new economy.
If we remember that family – not government – is the most important institution in society, that all life deserves protection, and that all parents deserve to choose the education that’s right for their children, then we will have a strong people and a strong nation.
And if America accepts the mantle of global leadership, by abandoning this administration’s dangerous concessions to Iran, and its hostility to Israel; by reversing the hollowing out of our military; by giving our men and women in uniform the resources, care and gratitude they deserve; by no longer being passive in the face of Chinese and Russian aggression; and by ending the near total disregard for the erosion of democracy and human rights around the world; then our nation will be safer, the world more stable, and our people more prosperous.
This election is not just about what laws we will pass. It is a generational choice about what kind of country we will be.This Is How America Should Lead
Marco Details His Foreign Policy Vision
In order for this to be a new American Century, we need a president who will answer the question “how should we lead?” with clarity and consistency. Marco will be that president.
I’d like to begin my remarks today by quoting from the closing of another set of remarks — from a speech that echoes across history due to its proximity to tragedy, but that stands more importantly, more powerfully, as a testament to the bipartisan tradition of strong American leadership.
On the morning of November 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy spoke at the Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce on the need for a strong and active America, and he ended with this:
“I am confident, as I look to the future, that our chances for security, our chances for peace, are better than they have been in the past. And the reason is because we are stronger. And with that strength is a determination to not only maintain the peace, but also the vital interests of the United States. To that great cause, Texas and the United States are committed.”
These were the final words of the final speech President Kennedy ever delivered. But the commitment to American Strength he spoke of lived on long after him — across decades, across both parties — eventually bringing about the conclusion of the Cold War and the emergence of America as the world’s only superpower.
President Kennedy, like most presidents before and since, understood what our current president does not: that American Strength is a means of preventing war, not promoting it. And that weakness, on the other hand, is the friend of danger and the enemy of peace.
Since the end of the Cold War, the threats facing America have changed, but the need for American Strength has not. It has only grown more pressing as the world has grown more interconnected.
In recent decades, technology has demolished barriers of travel and trade, transforming our national economy into a global one. The prosperity of our people now depends on their ability to interact freely and safely in the international marketplace. Turmoil across the world can impact American families almost as much as turmoil across town. It can cause the cost of living to rise, or entire industries to shed jobs and crumble.
Today, as never before, foreign policy is domestic policy.
Sadly, President Obama disagrees with that simple truth. He entered office believing America was too hard on our adversaries, too engaged in too many places, and that if we just took a step back, did some “nation building at home” — ceding leadership to other countries — America would be better liked and the world better off.
So he wasted no time stripping parts from the engine of American Strength. He enacted hundreds of billions in defense cuts that left our Army on track to be at pre-World War II levels, our Navy at pre-WWI levels, and our Air Force with the smallest and oldest combat force in its history.
He demonstrated a disregard for our moral purpose that at times flirted with disdain. He criticized America for having “arrogance” and the audacity to “dictate our terms” to other nations. From his reset with Russia, to his open hand to Iran, to his unreciprocated opening to Cuba, he has embraced regimes that systematically oppose every principle our nation has long championed.
This deterioration of our physical and ideological strength has led to a world far more dangerous than when President Obama entered office.
In just the last two years, we’ve seen an emboldened Russia invade Ukraine. We’ve seen ISIL sweep across multiple states, commit brutal atrocities, and attempt to establish a caliphate. We’ve seen one of the most devastating humanitarian catastrophes in decades as hundreds of thousands of Syrians have been slaughtered at the whim of a tyrant. We’ve seen the largest migration of refugees since World War II, bringing instability to an entire region and putting whole generations at risk of radicalization. We’ve seen China rapidly expand its military capabilities and take aggressive action in the South and East China Seas. We’ve seen North Korea expand its nuclear arsenal and continue its brutal human rights violations. We’ve seen cyber-attacks against our allies and our own people. We’ve seen peaceful protestors met with violence from their governments.
And most threatening of all, we’ve seen Iran expand its influence throughout the Middle East and threaten to annihilate Israel as it moves closer to a nuclear weapons capability. The president’s proposed deal with Tehran will likely lead to a cascade of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East and could force Israel to take bold action to defend itself, making war with Iran even more likely. President Obama’s desperation to sign a deal — any deal — has caused him to elevate politics over policy, legacy over leadership, and adversaries over allies.
The likely impacts of this deal, along with the broader unraveling of global order, underscore a truth we must never again forget: America plays a part on the world stage for which there is no understudy. When we fail to lead with strength and principle, no other country, friend or foe, is willing or able to take our place. And the result is chaos.
I believe the onus of maintaining American Strength lies where the buck stops. It is up to our next president to right the wrongs done by our current one. It is up to our next president to properly fund and modernize our military. It is up to our next president to restore our people’s faith in the promise and power of the American ideal.
We simply cannot afford to elect as our next president one of the leading agents of this administration’s foreign policy — a leader from yesterday whose tenure as Secretary of State was ineffective at best and dangerously negligent at worst. The stakes of tomorrow are too high to look to the failed leadership of yesterday.
While America did not intend to become the world’s indispensable power, that is exactly what our economic and political freedoms have made us. The free nations of the world still look to America to champion our shared ideals. Vulnerable nations still depend on us to deter aggression from their larger neighbors. Oppressed peoples still turn their eyes toward our shores, wondering if we hear their cries, wondering if we notice their afflictions.
We cannot bring about peace and stability on our own, but the world cannot do it without us. The question before us is not “should we lead?” but rather “how should we lead?” What principles should govern the exercise of our power?
The 21st century requires a president who will answer that question with clarity and consistency — one who will set forth a doctrine for the exercise of American influence in the world, and who will adhere to that doctrine with the principled devotion that has marked the bipartisan tradition of presidential leadership from Truman to Kennedy to Reagan.
Today, I intend to offer such a doctrine. And in the coming years, I intend to be such a president.
***
My foreign policy doctrine consists of three pillars.
The first is American Strength.
This is an idea that stems from a simple truth: the world is at its safest when America is at its strongest. When America has the mightiest Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, and intelligence community in the world, the result is more peace, not more conflict.
To ensure our strength never falters, we must always plan ahead. It takes forethought to design and many years to build the capabilities we may need at a moment’s notice. So to restore American Strength, my first priority will be to adequately fund our military. This would be a priority even in times of peace and stability, though the world today is neither peaceful nor stable.
To begin, we need to undo the damage caused by sequestration, which is why I’ve endorsed the National Defense Panel’s recommendation that we “return as soon as possible” to Secretary Gates’ fiscal year 2012 budget baseline.
Adequately funding the military will allow us not only to grow our forces, but also to modernize them, which in turn will allow us to remain on the cutting edge in every arena before us — land, sea and air, but also cyberspace and outer space: the battlefields of the 21st century.
By modernizing and innovating, we can ensure that we never send our troops into a fair fight; but rather always equip them with the upper hand. And when they come home, we will be as firmly committed to their wellbeing as they have been to ours.
A strong military also means a strong intelligence community, equipped with all it needs to defend the homeland from extremism — both homegrown and foreign-trained. Key to this will be permanently extending Section 215 of the Patriot Act. We cannot let politics cloud the importance of this issue. We must never find ourselves looking back after a terrorist attack and saying we could have done more to save American lives.
Some will argue that with all the fiscal challenges facing our nation, we simply cannot afford to invest in our military. The truth is we cannot afford not to invest in it. We must remember that the defense budget is not the primary driver of our debt, and every time we try to cut a dollar from our military it seems to cost us several more just to make up for it. This is because the successes of all our initiatives depend on the safety of the American people and the stability of the global economy.
And that brings me to the second pillar of my doctrine, which is the protection of the American economy in a globalized world.
When America was founded, it took more than ten weeks to travel to Europe. In the 19th century, the steam engine cut that to around 12 days. In the 20th century, the airplane cut it to around 6 hours. Now, in the 21st century, you can access global markets in a single second, with a tap on your smartphone.
Millions of the best jobs in this century will depend on international trade. It is more important than ever that Congress give the President Trade Promotion Authority so we can finalize the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. These agreements will create millions of jobs and cement U.S. strategic partnerships in Asia, South America, and Europe.
Those such as Secretary Clinton, who preach a message of international engagement and “smart power” yet are not willing to stand up to special interests and support free trade, are either hypocritical or fail to grasp trade’s role as a tool of statecraft that can bolster our relationships with partners and create millions of American jobs.
As president, I will use American power to oppose any violations of international waters, airspace, cyberspace, or outer space. This includes the economic disruption caused when one country invades another, as well as the chaos caused by disruptions in chokepoints such as the South China Sea or the Strait of Hormuz.
Russia, China, Iran, or any other nation that attempts to block global commerce will know to expect a response from my administration. Gone will be the days of debating where a ship is flagged or whether it is our place to criticize territorial expansionism. In this century, businesses must have the freedom to operate around the world with confidence.
The third pillar of my doctrine is moral clarity regarding America’s core values.
We must recognize that our nation is a global leader not just because it has superior arms, but because it has superior aims. America is the first power in history motivated by a desire to expand freedom rather than its own territory.
In recent years, the ideals that have long formed the backbone of American foreign policy — a passionate defense of human rights, the strong support of democratic principles, and the protection of the sovereignty of our allies — have been replaced by, at best, caution, and at worst, outright willingness to betray those values for the expediency of negotiations with repressive regimes.
This is not only morally wrong; it is contrary to our interests. Because wherever freedom and human rights spread, partners for our nation are born. But whenever our foreign policy comes unhinged from its moral purpose, it weakens global stability and forms cracks in our national resolve.
In this century, we must restore America’s willingness to think big — to state boldly what we stand for and why it is right. Just as Reagan never flinched in his criticisms of the Soviet Union’s political and economic repressions, we must never shy away from demanding that China allow true freedom for its 1.3 billion people. Nor should we hesitate in calling the source of atrocities in the Middle East by its real name — radical Islam.
As president, I will support the spread of economic and political freedom, reinforce our alliances, resist efforts by large powers to subjugate their smaller neighbors, maintain a robust commitment to transparent and effective foreign assistance programs, and advance the rights of the vulnerable — including women and the religious minorities that are so often persecuted — so that the afflicted peoples of the world know the truth: the American people hear their cries, see their suffering, and most of all, desire their freedom.
Those are the three pillars of my doctrine — American Strength, the protection of our global economy, and a proud advocacy for America’s core values.
This approach will restore American leadership to a world badly in need of it. It will reestablish a foreign policy based on strategy and principle rather than politics and polls — one that is overseen by the White House but not micromanaged by it, and that will restore America’s status as a nation that shapes global events rather than one that is shaped by them.
**
I want to allow plenty of time to discuss how this vision would work in practice. So let me close with one final thought.
The president of the United States is constantly called upon to make difficult decisions in the defense of our nation, and these decisions come with a cost far greater than money.
My greatest honor in serving in the U.S. Senate has been working with our men and women in uniform, our intelligence professionals, our diplomats, and our veterans. I have seen the tremendous sacrifices they and their families make, but I have also seen the tremendous impact those sacrifices have had on the world.
I have talked to Filipino Typhoon survivors who knew that an American carrier over the horizon meant food, water, and survival.
I have talked to Japanese and South Koreans who knew an enduring U.S. presence allowed their nations to prosper.
I have talked to Europeans convinced that America’s role as a security guarantor had prevented conflict on what had been a blood-soaked continent for centuries.
I have talked to American business leaders who knew their ability to access millions of international customers and create thousands of domestic jobs has hinged on American Strength.
Most personally, I have seen American freedom and security play out in the lives of my parents, my children… and myself.
But increasingly in recent years, I’ve also met people frustrated by the direction of American leadership:
Cuban dissidents devastated by the President’s concessions to the Castro regime for nothing in return … North Koreans disappointed by America’s reluctance to speak out against modern-day gulags… Arabs and Israelis worried about America’s indifference to Iran’s growing influence… Syrians crushed that America failed to prevent their country from descending into chaos… Afghans worried that America will leave them like we left Iraq…Europeans anxious about Russia’s bellicose rhetoric and actions…
And many of our own people, concerned about their safety in an increasingly chaotic world.
Of all the important duties of the presidency, and there are many, protecting our people and their interests — wherever those interests lie — is the highest honor, the greatest burden, and the most profound privilege. The first duty of the president, as written in the Constitution, is not “taxer in chief” or “regulator in chief” — it is Commander in Chief.
Every presidential candidate must be prepared to execute this duty. And any who advocates averting our eyes from the dangers of the world must be prepared to explain, against six years of counter evidence, how retrenchment and retreat will lead to a safer world. They will not.
Only American leadership will bring safety and enduring peace. America led valiantly in the last century — from Truman to Kennedy to Reagan. And because of our leadership, that century became an American Century.
Following World War II, Pope Pius the 12th noted as much when he wrote: “America has a genius for great and unselfish deeds. Into the hands of America God has placed the destiny of an afflicted mankind.”
I believe America still has that genius. I believe mankind remains afflicted, and that its destiny remains in our hands. And I believe America will continue to advance the cause of peace and freedom in our time.
Because we will, America will remain safe and strong.
And because we will, the 21st century will be another American Century.You Deserve The Facts Before Taking Out Student Loans
What will I earn with this degree at this college?
In Waukee, Iowa this weekend, Marco Rubio reiterated his proposal to ensure students and their families get all of the facts about their degree of choice at a given college or university before they take out student loans:
“I believe that before any of our young people take out student loans, that school has to tell you how much you can expect to make when you graduate from that degree from that school so people can decide whether it’s worth borrowing tens of thousands of dollars to major in basket weaving.”
Struggling to repay student loans is a challenge Marco knows about first hand:
Each semester I would sign the promissory note borrowing more money. I never sat down to calculate how much I could expect to make once I graduated and whether it would be enough to afford my loan payments. There was no source to provide me with that information either.
Finally, in 1996 I graduated from law school. I had a Juris Doctor in one hand and over $100,000 in loans in the other. Then a few months later, the bills began to arrive.
My first job paid well for a young attorney. I was making over $50,000, which was more than either of my parents had ever made. I thought I was rich. But I was living with my parents and paying them rent. I was trying to save for my wedding and hopefully to buy a house. And when the $1500 monthly bills for my loans started coming in, I realized I couldn't pay them.
So I did deferment. And forbearance. I paid only interest for a while. But the loans quickly became my single largest expense. I remember looking at the coupon book for one of them and realizing that at the pace I was paying these things, I wouldn't pay them off until I was over 50.
The problem is that we are trying to prepare people for the new economy using a higher education system built for the old economy. As a result, many high-skilled, high-paying industries suffer from a shortage of labor, while too many low-paying industries suffer from a surplus.

In the coming decade, 63 percent of jobs will require postsecondary training.
If current education trends continue, we will fall short of filling these skilled positions by 300,000 people per year.
Nationally, majors such as business, liberal arts, and hospitality have underemployment rates at or above 50 percent.
Engineering, health services and education all have underemployment rates less than 25 percent.

Students and their families need to be equipped with the information necessary to make well-informed decisions about which majors at which institutions are likely to yield the best return on investment. This is why Marco has authored and championed the Student Right to Know Before You Go Act, which aims to give students reliable data on how much they can expect to make versus how much they can expect to owe.
Summarized from remarks of Marco Rubio during “Making Community Colleges Work” at Miami-Dade College.
