The American people must make a fundamental decision.  Do we continue the 40-year decline of our middle class and the growing gap between the very rich and everyone else, or do we fight for a progressive economic agenda that creates jobs, raises wages, protects the environment and provides health care for all? Are we prepared to take on the enormous economic and political power of the billionaire class, or do we continue to slide into economic and political oligarchy? These are the most important questions of our time, and how we answer them will determine the future of our country. Today, we live in the richest country in the history of the world, but that reality means little because much of that wealth is controlled by a tiny handful of individuals.  The issue of wealth and income inequality is the great moral issue of our time, it is the great economic issue of our time, and it is the great political issue of our time.  The reality is that since the mid-1980s there has been an enormous transfer of wealth from the middle class and the poor to the wealthiest people in this country.  That is the Robin Hood principle in reverse.  That is unacceptable and that has got to change.  Just as the commandment Thou shalt not kill sets a clear limit in order to safeguard the value of human life, today we also have to say thou shalt not to an economy of exclusion and inequality.  Such an economy kills.  How can it be that it is not a news item when an elderly homeless person dies of exposure, but it is news when the stock market loses two points?  Pope Francis There is something profoundly wrong when one family owns more wealth than the bottom 130 million Americans.  The reality is that for the past 40 years, Wall Street and the billionaire class has rigged the rules to redistribute wealth and income to the wealthiest and most powerful people of this country.  This campaign is sending a message to the billionaire class: you cant have it all.  You cant get huge tax breaks while children in this country go hungry.  You cant continue sending our jobs to China while millions are looking for work.  You cant hide your profits in the Cayman Islands and other tax havens, while there are massive unmet needs on every corner of this nation.  Your greed has got to end.  You cannot take advantage of all the benefits of America, if you refuse to accept your responsibilities as Americans. Freedom of speech does not mean the freedom to buy the United States government.  Oil companies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, Wall Street bankers and other powerful special interests have poured money into our political system for years.  In 2010, a bad situation turned worse.  In a 5-4 decision in the Citizens United case, the Supreme Court opened the floodgates for corporations and the wealthy to spend unlimited and undisclosed money to buy our elected officials.  The Supreme Court essentially declared that corporations have the same rights as natural-born human beings.  Our democracy is under fierce attack.  Billionaire families are now able to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to buy the candidates of their choice.  These people own most of the economy.  Now they want to own our government as well.  The Koch brothers, the second wealthiest family in America, plan to spend some $900 million in the coming 2016 election  more money than either of our major parties spent in the last election.  That is not democracy.  That is oligarchy.  To restore our one person-one vote democracy, Congress must pass a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United and move toward public funding of elections. The real unemployment rate is much higher than the official figure typically reported in the newspapers.  When you include workers who have given up looking for jobs, or those who are working part time when they want to work full time, the real number is much higher than official figures would suggest.  Its even worse for young people.  A recent study found that over 50 percent of young African-Americans and more than one-third of white and Hispanic youth are looking for full-time work.   We are in the midst of an ongoing unemployment crisis, and we must take bold action to address it. Millions of Americans are working for totally inadequate wages. We must ensure that no full-time worker lives in poverty. The current federal minimum wage is starvation pay and must become a living wage.  We must increase it to $15 an hour over the next several years.  We must also establish equal pay for women.  Its unconscionable that women earn less than men for performing the same work.  Millions of American employees have been working 50 or 60 hours a week while receiving no overtime pay. That is why Bernie has been encouraging the Obama Administration to ensure that more workers receive overtime pay protection.  The Administrations new rule extending that protection to everyone making less than $947 a week is a step in the right direction.  It is a win for our economy and for our workers.  Lastly, we must support and strengthen the labor movement to ensure that workers have a say in their own economic futures.  Thats why Bernie has been a strong supporter of the Employee Free Choice Act, which would make it easier for workers to organize and bargain collectively.  Join Bernie's campaign to stand up for higher wages for American workers. The United States must lead the world in tackling climate change, if we are to make certain that this planet is habitable for our children and grandchildren.  We must transform our energy system away from polluting fossil fuels, and towards energy efficiency and sustainability.  Millions of homes and buildings need to be weatherized, and we need to greatly accelerate technological progress in wind and solar power generation.  Unless we take bold action to address climate change, our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren are going to look back on this period in history and ask a very simple question: Where were they? Why didnt the United States of America, the most powerful nation on earth, lead the international community in cutting greenhouse gas emissions and preventing the devastating damage that the scientific community told us would surely come?We must pursue policies that transform this country into a nation that affirms the value of its people of color.  That starts with addressing the four central types of violence waged against black and brown Americans: physical, political, legal and economic.  Sandra Bland, Michael Brown, Rekia Boyd, Eric Garner, Walter Scott, Freddie Gray, Tamir Rice, Samuel DuBose.  We know their names.  Each of them died unarmed at the hands of police officers or in police custody.  The chants are growing louder.  People are angry and they have a right to be angry.  We should not fool ourselves into thinking that this violence only affects those whose names have appeared on TV or in the newspaper.  African Americans are twice as likely to be arrested and almost four times as likely to experience the use of force during encounters with the police.  We are far from eradicating racism in this country.  In June, nine of our fellow Americans were murdered while praying in a historic church because of the color of their skin.  This violence fills us with outrage, disgust, and a deep, deep sadness.  Today in America, if you are black, you can be killed for getting a pack of Skittles during a basketball game.  These hateful acts of violence amount to acts of terror.  They are perpetrated by extremists who want to intimidate and terrorize black and brown people in this country.  It is an outrage that in these early years of the 21st century we are seeing intolerable acts of violence being perpetuated by police, and racist terrorism by white supremacists.  A growing number of communities do not trust the police and law enforcement officers have become disconnected from the communities they are sworn to protect.  Violence and brutality of any kind, particularly at the hands of the police sworn to protect and serve our communities, is unacceptable and must not be tolerated.  We need a societal transformation to make it clear that black lives matter, and racism cannot be accepted in a civilized country.  In the shameful days of open segregation, literacy laws were used to suppress minority voting.  Today, through other laws and actions  such as requiring voters to show photo ID, discriminatory drawing of Congressional districts, not allowing early registration or voting, and purging voter rolls  states are taking steps which have a similar effect.  The patterns are unmistakable.  An MIT paper found that African Americans waited twice as long to vote as whites.  Wait times of as long as six or seven hours have been reported in some minority precincts, especially in swing states like Ohio and Florida.  Thirteen percent of African-American men have lost the right to vote due to felony convictions.  This should offend the conscience of every American.  The fight for minority voting rights is a fight for justice.  It is inseparable from the struggle for democracy itself.  We must work vigilantly to ensure that every American, regardless of skin color or national origin, is able to vote freely and easily.  Millions of lives have been destroyed because people are in jail for nonviolent crimes.  For decades, we have been engaged in a failed War on Drugs with racially-biased mandatory minimums that punish people of color unfairly.  It is an obscenity that we stigmatize so many young Americans with a criminal record for smoking marijuana, but not one major Wall Street executive has been prosecuted for causing the near collapse of our entire economy.  This must change.  If current trends continue, one in four black males born today can expect to spend time in prison during their lifetime.  Blacks are imprisoned at six times the rate of whites and a report by the Department of Justice found that blacks were three times more likely to be searched during a traffic stop, compared to white motorists.  African-Americans are twice as likely to be arrested and almost four times as likely to experience the use of force during encounters with the police.  This is an unspeakable tragedy.  It is morally repugnant and a national tragedy that we have privatized prisons all over America.  In my view, corporations should not be allowed to make a profit by building more jails and keeping more Americans behind bars.  We have got to end the private-for-profit prison racket in America.  I intend to introduce legislation that will end the private prison industry.  The measure of success for law enforcement should not be how many people get locked up.  We need to invest in drug courts as well as medical and mental health interventions for people with substance abuse problems, so that people struggling with addiction do not end up in prison, they end up in treatment.  For people who have committed crimes that have landed them in jail, there needs to be a path back from prison.  The federal system of parole needs to be reinstated.  We need real education and real skills training for the incarcerated.  We must end the over incarceration of nonviolent young Americans who do not pose a serious threat to our society.  It is an international embarrassment that we have more people locked up in jail than any other country on earth  more than even the Communist totalitarian state of China.  That has got to end.  We must address the lingering unjust stereotypes that lead to the labeling of black youths as thugs.  We know the truth that, like every community in this country, the vast majority of people of color are trying to work hard, play by the rules and raise their children.  Its time to stop demonizing minority communities.  In many cities all over our country, the incentives for policing are upside down.  Departments are bringing in substantial sums of revenue by seizing the personal property of people who are suspected of criminal involvement.  So-called civil asset forfeiture laws allow police to take property from people even before they are charged with a crime, much less convicted of one.  Even worse, the system works in a way that make it nearly impossible for an innocent person to get her property back.  We must end programs that not only permit, but actually reward officials for seizing assets without a criminal conviction or other lawful mandate.  Departments and officers should not profit off of such seizures.  We must reform our criminal justice system to ensure fairness and justice for people of color.  Weeks before his death, Dr.  Martin Luther King, Jr.  spoke to a union group in New York about what he called the other America.  One America is flowing with the milk of prosperity and the honey of equality, King said.  That America is the habitat of millions of people who have food and material necessities for their bodies, culture and education for their minds, freedom and human dignity for their spirits.  . . .  But as we assemble here tonight, Im sure that each of us is painfully aware of the fact that there is another America, and that other America has a daily ugliness about it that transforms the buoyancy of hope into the fatigue of despair.  The problem was structural, King said: This country has socialism for the rich, rugged individualism for the poor.  Eight days later, speaking in Memphis, King continued the theme.  Do you know that most of the poor people in our country are working every day? he asked striking sanitation workers.  And they are making wages so low that they cannot begin to function in the mainstream of the economic life of our nation.  These are facts which must be seen, and it is criminal to have people working on a full-time basis and a full-time job getting part-time income.  King explained the shift in his focus: Now our struggle is for genuine equality, which means economic equality.  For we know that it isnt enough to integrate lunch counters.  What does it profit a man to be able to eat at an integrated lunch counter if he doesnt earn enough money to buy a hamburger and a cup of coffee? But what King saw in 1968  and what we all should recognize today  is that it is necessary to try to address the rampant economic inequality while also taking on the issue of societal racism.  We must simultaneously address the structural and institutional racism which exists in this country, while at the same time we vigorously attack the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality which is making the very rich much richer while everyone else  especially those in our minority communities  are becoming poorer.  In addition to the physical violence faced by too many in our country we need look at the lives of black children and address a few other difficult facts.  Black children, who make up just 18 percent of preschoolers, account for 48 percent of all out-of-school suspensions before kindergarten.  We are failing our black children before kindergarten.  Black students were expelled at three times the rate of white students.  Black girls were suspended at higher rates than all other girls and most boys.  According to the Department of Education, African American students are more likely to suffer harsh punishments  suspensions and arrests  at school.  We need to take a hard look at our education system.  Black students attend schools with higher concentrations of first-year teachers, compared with white students.  Black students were more than three times as likely to attend schools where fewer than 60 percent of teachers meet all state certification and licensure requirements.  Communities of color also face the violence of economic deprivation.  Lets be frank: neighborhoods like those in west Baltimore, where Freddie Gray resided, suffer the most.  However, the problem of economic immobility isnt just a problem for young men like Freddie Gray.  It has become a problem for millions of Americans who, despite hard-work and the will to get ahead, can spend their entire lives struggling to survive on the economic treadmill.  We live at a time when most Americans dont have $10,000 in savings, and millions of working adults have no idea how they will ever retire in dignity.  God forbid, they are confronted with an unforeseen car accident, a medical emergency, or the loss of a job.  It would literally send their lives into an economic tailspin.  And the problems are even more serious when we consider race.  Let us not forget: It was the greed, recklessness, and illegal behavior on Wall Street that nearly drove the economy off of the cliff seven years ago.  While millions of Americans lost their jobs, homes, life savings, and ability to send their kids to college, African Americans who were steered into expensive subprime mortgages were the hardest hit.  Most black and Latino households have less than $350 in savings.  The black unemployment rate has remained roughly twice as high as the white rate over the last 40 years, regardless of education.  Real African American youth unemployment is over 50 percent.  This is unacceptable.  The American people in general want change  they want a better deal.  A fairer deal.  A new deal.  They want an America with laws and policies that truly reward hard work with economic mobility.  They want an America that affords all of its citizens with the economic security to take risks and the opportunity to realize their full potential. Despite the central role immigrants play in our economy and in our daily lives, undocumented workers are reviled by some for political gain and shunted into the shadows.  It is time for this disgraceful situation to end.  This country faces enormous problems and they will not be solved unless we are united.  It is time to end the politics of division in this country.  We cannot and we should not be talking about sweeping up millions of men, women, and children  many of whom have been here for years  and throwing them out of the country.  Thats wrong and that type of discussion has got to end.  In 2008, Sen.  Sanders traveled to the tomato fields of southern Florida and met with migrant workers who were paid paltry wages for back-breaking work.  After his visit, Sanders invited leaders of the Coalition of Immokalee Workers to come to Washington and testify at a Senate committee hearing where they confronted growers on abusive labor practices.  The result in Immokalee, Florida was better working conditions and increased pay.  But how many more Immokalees are out there? How many fields or factories are there where people  often without legal status  are used up and thrown away? We cannot continue to run an economy where millions are made so vulnerable because of their undocumented status.  Many in the business community have argued for a massive expansion of temporary guest worker programs as the answer to the immigration issue.  That is not the answer.  As the Southern Poverty Law Center has documented, guest workers are routinely cheated out of wages, held virtually captive by employers who seize their documents, forced to live in inhumane conditions and denied medical treatment for on-the-job injuries.  In addition, we as a nation have got to realize the importance of dealing not just with the issue of immigration but with the very real refugee crisis we face.  It was appalling last year when so many voices were insisting that the large numbers of desperate, unaccompanied children who crossed our borders be turned away or simply shipped back to their country of origin like a package marked return to sender.   Unfortunately, American policy in Latin America has too often made difficult economic and political problems even worse.  For example, supporters of NAFTA told us that this unfettered free trade agreement would increase the standard of living in Mexico and significantly reduce the flow of undocumented immigrants into this country as a result.  The opposite was true.  Since the implementation of NAFTA, the number of Mexicans living below the poverty line has increased by over 14 million people.  Almost 2 million small farmers have been displaced.  And in the twenty years since NAFTA growth in per capita GDP has been only half of that experienced by other Latin American nations.  Not surprisingly we have seen a 185 percent increase in the number of undocumented immigrants from Mexico from 1992 to 2011. Despite major advances in civil and political rights, our country still has a long way to go in addressing the issue of gender inequality.  Many of the achievements that have been made for womens rights in the 20th century have been under attack by the Republican party  denying women control over their own bodies, preventing access to vital medical and social services, and blocking equal pay for equal work.  We are not going back to the days when women had to risk their lives to end an unwanted pregnancy.  The decision about abortion must remain a decision for the woman and her doctor to make, not the government.  We are not going to allow the extreme right-wing to defund Planned Parenthood, we are going to expand it.  Planned Parenthood provides vital healthcare services for millions of women, who rely on its clinics every year for affordable, quality health care services including cancer prevention, STI and HIV testing and general primary health care services.  The current attempt to malign Planned Parenthood is part of a long-term smear campaign by people who want to deny women in this country the right to control their own bodies.  We are not going back to the days when women did not have full access to birth control.  Incredibly, almost all of the Republicans in the Senate are in favor of giving any employer who provides health insurance, or any insurance company, the ability to deny coverage for contraception or any other kind of procedure if the employer had a moral objection to it.  That is unacceptable.  We will not go back to the days when survivors of domestic violence had no access to services or recourse against their abusers, because domestic violence was swept under the rug, as a shameful, private issue.  Worse yet, it was not so long ago that spousal abuse was legal in many states.  We must expand services provided through the Violence Against Women Act and the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, and fight any attempts to undermine these laws.  We are not going back to the days when it was legal for women to be paid less for doing the same work as men.   It is wrong that women working full-time only earn 78 cents for every dollar a man earns.  We have got to move forward and pass the <a href="http://www. nwlc. org/resource/how-paycheck-fairness-act-will-strengthen-equal-pay-act" target="_blank">Paycheck Fairness Act</a> into law.  And, not only are we going to expand policies that advance gender equality, we are going to fight to pass the long-overdue Equal Rights Amendment and vigorously defend the critical laws and programs which protect all working people in our country.  At a time when elderly women are more likely than men to be living in poverty, not only do we say NO to cuts in Social Security, we will expand Social Security.  When 35 million Americans <a href="http://www. census. gov/hhes/www/hlthins/data/incpovhlth/2010/fig07. pdf" target="_blank">lack health insurance</a>, not only do we say NO to cuts in Medicare and Medicaid, we will expand these programs that are so important to families. Senator Sanders has been a longtime supporter of LGBT rights.  In 1983, during his first term as Mayor of Burlington, Sen.  Sanders supported the citys first ever Pride Parade.  He later signed a city ordinance banning housing discrimination.  When he served in the House of Representatives, then-Congressman Sanders voted against Dont Ask, Dont Tell in 1993 and the so-called Defense of Marriage Act in 1996.  Sen.  Sanders hailed the landmark Supreme Court decisions in 2013 and 2015 which struck down DOMA and recognized same-sex marriage is a right in all 50 states, calling the decisions a victory for same-sex couples across our country as well as all those seeking to live in a nation where every citizen is afforded equal rights.  The United States has made remarkable progress on gay rights in a relatively short amount of time.  But there is still much work to be done.  In many states, it is still legal to fire someone for being gay.  It is legal to deny someone housing for being transgender.  That is unacceptable and must change.  We must end discrimination in all forms.  Sen.  Sanders is currently a cosponsor of the Equality Act, which would expand the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and other anti-discrimination laws to include protections for sexual orientation and gender identity.  He has consistently supported legislation that would guarantee LGBT Americans would be treated as equal citizens, and has a lifetime perfect score from the Human Rights Campaign.  As President, Sen.  Sanders will:While serious people can have legitimate differences about when our country should go to war, there should never be a debate whether we fulfill the promises made to the men and women who served this country in the military.  As a nation, we have a moral obligation to provide the best quality care to those who have put their lives on the line to defend us.  Sen.  Sanders believes that just as planes and tanks and guns are a cost of war, so is taking care of the men and women who we sent off to fight the war.  It includes caring for the spouses and children who have to rebuild their lives after the loss of a loved one.  It includes caring for the hundreds of thousands of veterans with multiple amputations or loss of eyesight, post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury.  It includes veterans who are having difficulty keeping jobs in order to pay their bills, and it includes the terrible tragedy of veterans committing suicide.   As the former Chairman and a current member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, one of Sen.  Sanders highest priorities in Congress has been ensuring that our veterans receive the care and benefits they have earned.  Amid reports of unacceptable wait times at many VA medical facilities last year, Sen.  Sanders spearheaded a bipartisan effort to pass the most comprehensive veterans legislation in decades.  The landmark Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act increases accountability within the VA and ensures that all veterans have access to timely health care.  The law written by Sanders strengthens the VA health care system by authorizing 27 new medical facilities and by providing $5 billion to hire more doctors and nurses to care for the surging number of veterans returning from wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  It provides incentives to attract young doctors to the VA.  It makes it easier for some veterans to see private doctors or go to community health centers, Department of Defense facilities or Indian Health Centers.  It expanded VA educational benefits and improved care for survivors of sexual trauma while serving in the military.  Sen.  Sanders wants to build on a program he has championed in Vermont, where the National Guard operates an innovative outreach program to provide pre-deployment and post-deployment support to family members and service members.  This effort has been hugely successful in terms of making sure that veterans know about and receive the health care, mental health counseling, family assistance, transition assistance and other benefits they need to make sure they can live a healthy and productive life.  Moving forward, Sen.  Sanders wants to expand veterans benefits by making comprehensive dental care available to all veterans at VA medical centers, and by expanding caregiver provisions.  He believes we must do more to meet the mental health needs of our veterans, especially those who have served in harms way.  We must fully restore cuts to military pensions that were insisted upon by Republicans in the last budget deal.   Sen.  Sanders also strongly believes that we must end the travesty of veterans homelessness.  While huge gains have been made over the past six years, the fact that on any given night there are fifty thousand homeless veterans on the street is a national disgrace.  We also need to make further improvements to the VA disability claims process, which while significantly streamlined, still takes far too long for many veterans. Social Security is the most successful government program in our nations history.  Before it was signed into law, nearly half of senior citizens lived in poverty.  Today, the elderly poverty rate is 10 percent.  Although still much too high, thats a dramatic improvement.  Through good times and bad, Social Security has paid every nickel owed to every eligible American  on time and without delay.  As corporations destroyed the retirement dreams of millions over the past 30 years by eliminating defined benefit pension plans, Social Security was right there paying full benefits.  As millions of Americans lost their life savings after Wall Streets recklessness crashed the economy in 2008, Social Security was right there paying full benefits.  Today, Social Security is more important than ever.  Over half of workers between the ages of 55-64 have no retirement savings.  More than a third of senior citizens depend on Social Security for virtually all of their income.  One out of every five senior citizens is trying to scrape by on an average income of just $8,300 a year.  Given these facts, our job cannot be to cut Social Security.  Our job must be to expand it so that every American can retire with dignity and respect.  Virtually every Republican candidate for president disagrees.  Many of them claim Social Security is going broke, that its causing the deficit to explode, and its trust fund is full of IOUs.  They want the American people to believe Social Security is in crisis and must be cut.  They are dead wrong.  Here are the facts: Sen.  Sanders has introduced legislation to end this absurdity, by lifting this cap so that everyone who makes over $250,000 a year pays the same percentage of their income into Social Security as the middle class and working families.  This would not only extend the solvency of Social Security for the next 50 years, but also bring in enough revenue to expand benefits by an average of $65 a month; increase cost-of-living-adjustments; and lift more seniors out of poverty by increasing the minimum benefits paid to low-income seniors.  Not only is this the right thing to do from a moral perspective, it is also what the vast majority of the American people want us to do.  61 percent of the American people support expanding Social Security benefits by lifting the cap on taxable income, according to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll earlier this year.  At a time when millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, even as virtually all of the new income in this country is going to the top one percent, Sen.  Sanders legislation will begin to reduce the obscene level of income inequality in America.  Its time to expand Social Security to make sure that everyone in this country can retire with the dignity and respect they deserve. Access to health care is a human right, and that includes access to safe and affordable prescription drugs.  It is time to enact prescription drug policies that work for everyone, not just the CEOs of the pharmaceutical industry.  Americans pay, by far, the highest prices for prescription drugs in the entire world.  When we talk about health care, we are talking about the need of the American people to be able to afford the medicine their health care providers prescribe.  A life-saving drug does no good if the people who need it cannot afford that drug.  Yet, last year, nearly one in five Americans between the ages of 19 and 64  35 million people  did not get their prescriptions filled because they did not have enough money.  In the wealthiest country in the history of the world, Americans should not have to live in fear that they will go bankrupt or die because they cannot afford to take the medication they need.  In any given month, more than half of all American adults take at least one prescription drug.  There is no question that medicines help millions of people live healthier and longer lives, and can also prevent more expensive illnesses and treatments.  However, it is unacceptable that the United States now spends more than $370 billion on prescription drugs and spending is rising faster than at any point in the last decade.  Instead of listening to the demands of the pharmaceutical industry and their 1,400 lobbyists, it is time that Congress started listening to the American people, who overwhelmingly believe that the cost of medication is too expensive.  More than 70 percent of Americans believe drug costs are unreasonable and that drug companies are putting profits before people.  Americans filled 4. 3 billion prescriptions last year.  The Sanders plan includes six policies to get better deals for the American people.  Sanders plan will: This is not a partisan issue.  Most Americans  Republicans, Democrats, and independents  want Congress to do something about drug prices.  Tens of thousands of Americans now spend more than $100,000 a year on prescription medications.  Drug costs are out of control because thats the way pharmaceutical companies want it.  Other countries have national health insurance plans that negotiate better prices for all of their residents.  In this country, however, drug lobbyists have been able to block all of these common-sense solutions that we must work to pass into law.  That is unacceptable and that has got to change. Wall Street cannot continue to be an island unto itself, gambling trillions in risky financial instruments while expecting the public to bail it out.  It is time to break up the largest financial institutions in the country.  The six largest financial institutions in this country today hold assets equal to about 60% of the nations gross domestic product.  These six banks issue more than two-thirds of all credit cards and over 35 percent of all mortgages.  They control 95 percent of all derivatives and hold more than 40 percent of all bank deposits in the United States.  We must break up too-big-to-fail financial institutions.  Those institutions received a $700 billion bailout from the US taxpayer, and more than $16 trillion in virtually zero interest loans from the Federal Reserve.  Despite that, financial institutions made over $152 billion in profit in 2014  the most profitable year on record, and three of the four largest financial institutions are 80 percent bigger today than they were before we bailed them out.   Our banking system must be part of the productive, job-creating productive economy.  The Federal Reserve, a government entity which serves as the engine of the banking industry, must eliminate its internal conflicts of interest, provide stricter oversight, and insist that the banks its supports serve the economy in a way that works for everyone, not just a few.  If a bank is too big to fail, it is too big to exist.  These institutions have acquired too much economic and political power, endangering our economy and our political process. When my Republican colleagues mention family values, theyre usually talking about opposition to contraception, denying a womans right to choose, or opposition to gay rights.  Real family values strengthen the bonds of family and improve the lives of our families.  When it comes to these values, our country deserves better.  We are the only major nation in the world that doesnt guarantee paid time off for new parents.  Of 182 nations that do provide paid leave for this purpose, more than half guarantee at least 14 weeks off.  We are the only one of 22 wealthy nations that does not guarantee some type of paid sick leave, and the only one that does not provide paid sick leave for a worker undergoing a 50-day cancer treatment.  We are the only advanced economy, and one of only 13 nations in the entire world, that doesnt guarantee workers a paid vacation.  The truth is that we lag behind other developed countries in many of the policies that bring working families together.  Thats wrong.  Its a travesty.  And it should be an embarrassment to anyone who claims to speak for family values in this country. We live in a difficult and dangerous world, and there are no easy or magical solutions.  As President and Commander-in-Chief, I will defend this nation, its people, and Americas vital strategic interests, but I will do it responsibly.  America must defend freedom at home and abroad, but we must seek diplomatic solutions before resorting to military action.  While force must always be an option, war must be a last resort, not the first option.  As a member of Congress,I have supported the use of force only when it was a last resort and Americas vital interests were at stake.  I opposed the first Gulf War, as did many other Members of Congress, because I believed that there was a way to achieve our goals without bloodshed, through sanctions and concerted diplomatic action.  I supported the use of force to stop the ethnic cleansing in the Balkans.  And, in the wake of the attacks on September 11, 2001, I supported the use of force in Afghanistan to hunt down the terrorists who attacked us.  I regret that President Bush did not use that authority properly, and that American combat troops remained there too long.  I voted against the war in Iraq, and knew it was the right vote then, and most people recognize it was the right vote today.  The only mission President Bush and his neo-conservative friends accomplished was to destabilize an entire region, and create the environment for al-Qaeda and ISIS to flourish.  Senator Sanders believes that the test of a great and powerful nation is not how many wars it can engage in, but how it can resolve international conflicts in a peaceful manner.  From the Middle East, to Ukraine, to North Korea, to the South China Sea, to civil war in the worlds newest nation  South Sudan, we face a multitude of serious foreign policy challenges.  Senator Sanders will protect America, defend our interests and values, embrace our commitments to defend freedom and support human rights, and be relentless in combating terrorists who would do us harm.  However, after nearly fourteen years of ill-conceived and disastrous military engagements in the Middle East, it is time for a new approach.  We must move away from policies that favor unilateral military action and preemptive war, and that make the United States the de facto policeman of the world.  Senator Sanders believes that foreign policy is not just deciding how to react to conflict around the world, but also includes redefining Americas role in the increasingly global economy.  Along with our allies throughout the world, we should be vigorous in attempting to prevent international conflict, not just responding to problems.  For example, the international trade agreements we enter into, and our energy and climate change policies not only have enormous consequences for Americans here at home, but greatly affect our relations with countries around the world.  Senator Sanders has the experience, the record and the vision not just to lead on these critically important issues, but to take our country in a very different direction.  Sen.  Sanders considers his vote against the Iraq War to be one of the most important he has cast, and believes that the invasion in Iraq was one of the worst foreign policy blunders in modern U. S.  history.  As a leader in the opposition to the war in Iraq, much of what then Congressman Sanders feared would happen has, in fact, occurred.  Not only did the United States invade Iraq based on false information, but the war has radically destabilized the entire region and has been completely counterproductive in terms of fighting international terrorism.  As the former Chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, Senator Sanders knows what the cost of war is.  He knows that 6,700 brave men and women lost their lives in those wars, that too many came home without legs, arms or eyesight.  He also knows that some 500,000 servicemen and women returned home with PTSD and Traumatic Brain Injury, and that the war disrupted the lives of tens of thousands of families.  Sen.  Sanders voted to authorize military strikes against Afghanistan, after it became clear that the Taliban regime harbored and gave support to Osama bin Laden and the al-Qaeda terrorists who attacked America on 9/11.  However, while we entered that war with significant clarity of purpose and moral authority, President Bush soon lost sight about what our goals were in Afghanistan.  Instead of fighting those who attacked our country, he embroiled our troops in a quagmire in a far-away land.  Sen.  Sanders called on both Presidents Bush and Obama to withdraw U. S.  troops as soon as possible and for the people of Afghanistan to take full responsibility for their own security.  After visiting Afghanistan, Sen.  Sanders spoke-out against the rampant corruption he saw, particularly in regards to elections, security and the banking system.  The U. S.  must do everything it can to make certain that Iran does not get a nuclear weapon, that a nuclear Iran does not threaten Israel, and to prevent a nuclear arms race in the region.  Sen.  Sanders supports the agreement between the U. S. , Iran, Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia regarding Irans nuclear weapons program, because it has the best chance of limiting Irans ability to produce a nuclear weapon, while avoiding yet another war in the region.  While the agreement is not perfect, it is far better than the path we were on  with Iran developing nuclear weapons and the potential for military intervention by the U. S.  and Israel growing greater by the day.  If Iran does not live up to the agreement, sanctions can be reestablished and all other options remain on the table.  It is incumbent upon us, however, to give the negotiated agreement a chance to succeed, and Sen.  Sanders applauds President Obama and Secretary Kerry for their efforts.  The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has been one of the worlds most difficult and intractable disputes for more than sixty years.  Moreover, the failure to resolve that crisis has helped fuel other conflicts in the region.  Senator Sanders has long supported a two-state solution that recognizes Israels right to exist in peace and security, and the Palestinians right to a homeland in which they control their political and economic future.  The most recent violence in Gaza represented a particularly ugly and violent time in the dispute.  Senator Sanders strongly condemned indiscriminate rocket fire by Hamas into Israeli territory, and Hamas use of civilian neighborhoods to launch those attacks.  However, while recognizing that Israel has the right to defend itself, he also strongly condemned Israeli attacks on Gaza as disproportionate and the widespread killing of civilians as completely unacceptable.  The U. S.  must play a leading role in creating a two-state solution, which will require significant compromises from both sides.  The Palestinians must unequivocally recognize Israels right to exist, and hold accountable those who have committed terrorist acts.  The Israelis must end the blockade of Gaza, and cease developing settlements on Palestinian land.  Both sides must negotiate in good faith regarding all other outstanding issues that stand in the way of a durable and lasting peace in the region.  In the meantime, strict adherence, by all sides, to the tenets of international humanitarian law is necessary in order to avoid escalating the conflict yet again.  We live in a dangerous world full of serious threats, perhaps none more so than the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and al-Qaeda.  Senator Sanders is committed to keeping America safe, and pursuing those who would do Americans harm.  But we cannot combat international terrorism alone.  We must work with our allies to root out terrorist funding networks, provide logistical support in the region, disrupt online radicalization, provide humanitarian relief, and support and defend religious freedom.  Moreover, we must begin to address the root causes of radicalization, instead of focusing solely on military responses to those who have already become radicalized.  And while there is no question our military must be fully prepared and have the resources it needs to fight international terrorism, it is imperative that we take a hard look at the Pentagons budget and the priorities it has established.  The U. S.  military must be equipped to fight todays battles, not those of the last war, much less the Cold War.  Our defense budget must represent our national security interests and the needs of our military, not the reelection of members of Congress or the profits of defense contractors.  The warning that President Dwight David Eisenhower gave us about the influence of the Military-Industrial Complex in 1961 is truer today than it was then.  Senator Sanders believes our country must remain vigilant to protect us from terrorist attacks at home, whether from organized international terrorist networks, or from lone wolf extremists.  The threat is real, and he will aggressively pursue those who would do us harm.  However, Sen.  Sanders strongly believes that we must pursue polices that uphold the core values that make us proud to be Americans.  That is why Sen.  Sanders voted against the Patriot Act when it was first passed, why he voted against the Patriot Act when it was renewed, and why he opposed the so-called USA Freedom Act this past spring.  We must not trade away our constitutional rights and civil liberties for the illusion of security.  Instead, we must rein in the National Security Agency and end the bulk collection of phone records, internet history, and email data of virtually all Americans. Our intelligence and law enforcement agencies must have the tools they need to protect the American people, but there must be legal oversight and they must go about their work in a way that does not sacrifice our basic freedoms.  The same goes for our actions abroad.  The U. S.  must never again embrace torture as a matter of official policy.  In an increasingly brutal world, the wanton use of torture by the Bush administration simply meant we lost our moral standing to condemn others who engage in merciless behavior.  That is why Sen.  Sanders has consistently spoken out against waterboarding and other forms of extreme enhanced interrogation.  We must also, finally, close the Guantanamo Bay detention center.  The mere existence of this camp, and the misguided policies that led to its creation, continues to damage the United States moral standing in the world, undermines our foreign policy, and fans the flames of terrorism rather than deters it. I support the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the agreement that the U. S.  negotiated with China, France, Germany, Russia, and the United Kingdom and Iran.  I support the agreement, and opposed the Republicans resolution of disapproval, as I believe this approach is the best way forward if we are to accomplish what we all want to accomplish  that is making certain that Iran does not acquire a nuclear weapon  an occurrence which would destabilize the region, lead to a nuclear arms race in the area, and would endanger the existence of Israel.  It is my firm belief that the test of a great nation, with the most powerful military on earth, is not how many wars we can engage in, but how we can use our strength and our capabilities to resolve international conflicts in a peaceful way.   Those who have spoken out against this agreement, including many of my colleagues in the Senate, and those who have made every effort to thwart the diplomatic process, are many of the same people who spoke out forcefully and irresponsibly about the need to go to war with Iraq  one of the worst foreign policy blunders in the modern history of our country.  Sadly, people like former vice president Dick Cheney and many of the other neo-cons who pushed us to war Iraq were not only tragically wrong then, they are wrong now.   Unfortunately, these individuals have learned nothing from the results of that disastrous policy and how it destabilized the entire region.  I fear that many of my Republican colleagues do not understand that war must be a last resort, not the first resort.  It is easy to go to war, it is not so easy to understand the unintended consequences of that war.  As the former Chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, I have talked to veterans from World War II to Iraq, and I have learned a little bit about what the cost of war entails.  In Iraq and Afghanistan we have lost 6,700 brave men and women, and many others have come home without legs, without arms, without eyesight.  Let us not forget that 500,000 veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan came back to their families with post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury.  The suicide rate of young veterans is appallingly high.  The divorce rate is appallingly high, and the impact on children is appallingly high.  God knows how many families have been devastated by these wars.  And we should not forget the many hundreds of thousands of innocent Iraqi men, women, and children who died in that war, and those whose lives who have been completely destabilized, including those who are fleeing their country today with only the clothes on their back as refugees.  Yes, the military option should always be on the table, but it should be the last option.  We have got to do everything we can do to reach an agreement to ensure that Iran does not get a nuclear weapon without having to go to war.  I believe we have an obligation to pursue diplomatic solutions before resorting to military engagement  especially after nearly fourteen years of ill-conceived and disastrous military engagements in the region.   The agreement calls for cutting off Irans pathways to the fissile materials needed for a nuclear weapon by reducing its stockpile of uranium by 98 percent, and restricting the level of enrichment of uranium to well below the level needed for weaponized uranium.  The agreement requires Iran to decrease the number of installed centrifuges by two-thirds, dismantle the countrys heavy-water nuclear reactor so that it cannot produce any weapons-grade plutonium, and commit to rigorous monitoring, inspection, and verification by the International Atomic Energy Agency.  Only after Iran has demonstrated to the international community its compliance with the tenets of the agreement  the U. S.  and European Union will lift the sanctions that helped bring Iran to the negotiating table in the first place.  The agreement also contains a mechanism for the snap back of those sanctions if Iran does not comply with its obligations.  Does the agreement achieve everything I would like? Of course not.  But to my mind, it is far better than the path we were on with Iran developing nuclear weapons capability and the potential for military intervention by the U. S.  and Israel growing greater by the day.  Let us not forget that if Iran does not live up to the agreement, sanctions may be reimposed.  If Iran moves toward a nuclear weapon, all available options remain on the table.  I think it is incumbent upon us, however, to give the negotiated agreement a chance to succeed, and it is for these reasons that I support the agreement. The American people must make a fundamental decision.  Do we continue the 40-year decline of our middle class and the growing gap between the very rich and everyone else, or do we fight for a progressive economic agenda that creates jobs, raises wages, protects the environment and provides health care for all? Are we prepared to take on the enormous economic and political power of the billionaire class, or do we continue to slide into economic and political oligarchy? These are the most important questions of our time, and how we answer them will determine the future of our country. 
